A 3 fund portfolio is a diversified investment plan comprising three different kinds of assets, i.e., domestic stocks, domestic bonds, and international stocks. In this kind of investment, the investors can choose the asset allocation mix and the funds based on their financial objective.

This plan aims to diversify retirement investments. As a result, investors can undertake this investment approach for their 401(k) to ensure the retirement savings benefit with tax advantage. Also, it gives a higher degree of control over the assets and, thus, helps manage and reallocate funds for risk adjustment.

A 3 fund portfolio ensures diversification and, thus, minimizes risk in the long term. It includes two domestic asset classes, i.e., stocks and bonds, and an international stocks investment to offer growth opportunities independent of the domestic market condition. Indeed, domestic stocks boost the return potential while the bonds ensure stable returns to create a balanced portfolio. The fund is allotted to these three asset classes in a certain ratio. For instance, it can be 50% in domestic stocks, 30% in domestic bonds, and 20% in international stocks.
Moreover, such an investment plan provides freedom of asset allocation to match the investors’ long-term financial goals. Many investment advisors consider a 3 fund portfolio allocation a passive investment strategy. However, rebalancing the assets is still crucial to avoid losses. It is important to remember that the key to success in a 3 fund portfolio is to keep it simple from the start and invest in index funds that replicate the performance of a particular market.
Despite being cost-effective, such investment vehicles don’t provide impressive returns. Also, there are various alternatives, like real estate, which are more rewarding than 3 fund portfolio returns but with a higher risk level. A target date fund offers similar benefits with fewer complications.
Creating a 3 fund portfolio is all about strategies and decision-making. It normally involves the following steps:
Check out this example to better understand the 3 fund portfolio allocation. Mr. A, a US citizen aged 44 years, plans to go for a 3-fund portfolio. He wants to invest $1500 every month for his retirement. Since he is a middle-aged investor, he is hesitant to take high risks and therefore selected the following asset allocation mix:
The 3 fund portfolios and S&P 500 are completely different investment vehicles that serve different investor objectives. Let us go through the differences between them below:
Although a 3 fund portfolio is not suitable for every investor, it is a wise decision for investors seeking consistent retirement savings and wealth creation in the long run. Moreover, it is a simple way of diversifying the portfolio. Also, it involves low risk (which can be regularly adjusted) and is comparatively more cost-effective than the other investment options when the investors opt for relevant index funds.
There is no best 3 fund portfolio since the one that seems best for an investor may not work for the other. However, a strategically designed high-performance 3 fund portfolio includes assets or index funds replicating the overall market.
Firstly, a 3 fund portfolio is not for everyone. The investors can use it in their 401(k) plan if they are beginners, want a simple but diversified asset allocation, and wish to have retirement savings and tax benefits. It is even suitable for investors who aim at tax savings.
This article has been a guide to what is a 3 Fund Portfolio. We compare it with S&P 500 and explain the topic in detail, such as how to create it, and an example. You may also find some useful articles here –
Assets under management (AUM), also referred to as funds under management, is the aggregate market value of all the investments managed by a financial institution. It is an important financial metric studied by investors before choosing their fund management institution. It also helps in the calculation of management fees.

AUM is viewed concerning the net investment value of a specific client or all of the firm’s clients. However, the latter is more prominent as it indicates the company’s financial performance. The value of AUM keeps changing with the current market price of the investments.

Assets under management (AUM) is a significant parameter in the financial world. It answers financial questions like – how many investments does a company manage? What is the net value of the investments that the company manages? Finally, how many investors have trusted their assets with the company? The higher the answer to these three questions, the more glory to the company.
A wealthy investor who is not concerned by higher fees but wants maximum returns of their asset will probably choose an asset manager based on its AUM. Thus, the AUM indicates the financial performance of the firm. Also, based on the funds under management, the firm collects fees from other clients.
So, what are the investments which qualify as AUM? Any liquid asset of the investor they have entrusted the asset manager with monitoring and control. For example, bank deposits, cash balances, equity shares, bonds, mutual funds, and other investments.
What are the services an asset manager provides to their clients? The most important function is decision-making. With the constant fluctuations and rapid movements in the market, an asset manager has to make decisions about holding or selling an investment. The firm communicates with the investors and advises them about the necessary action.
Once the decision is taken, the firm acts on the decision, i.e., the investor does not have to enter the field. In addition, the asset management company will buy, sell, and make any other transactions on behalf of the investor. Finally, the firm also renders services like accounting, tax reporting, proxy voting (equity shares), client reporting, and other financial services.
The way that companies determine their AUM varies. It is influenced by the inflow and outflow of investor capital from a certain fund, and as a result, they are subject to daily fluctuations. The AUM of a fund will also rise as a result of asset performance, capital growth, and reinvested dividends. Additionally, the overall AUM may rise when new clients and their assets are acquired.
Assets under management calculation can be done in two ways, depending on what is to be determined. Let’s read about it in the following section –
(i) The total investment value of a client is the current market price of all the assets an investor owns. Usually, it includes investments only managed by the firm. But some companies also include bank deposits, cash balances, and mutual funds. At times, the value is equal to the individual’s net worth. This value is affected by market conditions, capital appreciation, reinvested dividends, and asset performance.
(ii) The total value of investments managed by a firm considers all the clients a firm serves. Therefore, the more the number of clients and the higher the individual investment value of the investors, the more the AUM of a firm. 
BlackRock, Inc. is an American investment management company. It holds the first position in the global assets under management ranking, with a total of $10 trillion. Recently, BlackRock’s AUM fell 16% in the third quarter of 2022. The decline was accompanied by a fall in bond and equity markets. It is most likely because of rising interest rates put forward by the central banks to counter inflation. 
On September 30, the firm’s AUM fell to $ 7.96 trillion. It was the lowest since 2022. Further, the net adjusted income of the third quarter decreased by 17% compared to a year earlier. The firm had estimated a net of $104 billion from long-term fund inflows but attracted only $65 billion. 
Assets under administration (AUA) or assets under custody is similar to AUM. However,  certain differences do exist. Let’s analyze them.
Assets under management calculation depend on what is to be determined. For instance, to find the AUM of a particular client, first, estimate the market value of each investment held by the individual. Then, sum up all the market values to arrive at the total.Alternatively, to determine the total AUM of an asset management company, find the AUM of all investors whose assets the company manages and add the values. This is one of the most important parameters. Bank deposits, equities, bonds, mutual funds, cash, etc., can be considered in the calculation.
As of January 2022, BlackRock, Inc., an American investment management company, tops the assets under management ranking with a total AUM of $10 trillion. 
No. A firm’s AUM is not accounted for in its balance sheet because they are not a part of the company’s assets. Instead, they are the client’s assets. 
This has been a guide to Assets Under Management and its meaning. We explain its calculation, example, and comparison with assets under administration.

Hot money refers to the portfolio of funds actively invested in diversified assets (stocks, deposits, bonds, commodities currencies, and derivatives) intending to take advantage of any available short-term opportunity to earn higher short-term returns. This type of investment results in frequent movement of money between countries, and so the money only stays in one place for a year or even much less than that.

Thus, is is the currency that very swiftly moves between various financial markets. It tends to moves towards economies that give higher interest rates. Banks of an economy try to bring these funds by issuing certificate of deposits for short term bearing higher interest rates.
Hot money is an investment strategy that entails the movement of capital from one economy to another to take advantage of short-term opportunities.
Financial institutionsFinancial InstitutionsFinancial institutions refer to those organizations which provide business services and products related to financial or monetary transactions to their clients. Some of these are banks, NBFCs, investment companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and trust corporations. read more, such as banks, lure hot money investors by introducing certificates of deposit that offer an above-average rate of interest. As soon as a bank cuts its interest rates while another bank increases its interest rates, these investors withdraw their funds from the bank with a lower interest rate and move it to the bank with a higher interest rate.
The same concept of hot money flows can also be extended to economies wherein these investors move their funds from one country to another to take advantage of the favorable interest rate differentials.

Let us look at some examples of hot money.
Thus, the above examples of hot money explain the concept very clearly.
Although all types of hot money capital exhibit the same common characteristics – short investment horizonInvestment HorizonThe term "investment horizon" refers to the amount of time an investor is expected to hold an investment portfolio or a security before selling it. Depending on the need for funds and risk appetite, the investor may invest for a few days or hours to a few years or decades.read more and frequent movement, they can still be categorized under two major heads based on the form of investment:

Given the short-term nature, along with high returns, there are bound to be some risks associated with hot money investment, and it is important to know about these risks. Some of the major risks of hot money inflows are:
As discussed in the previous section, the hot money inflows investment strategy isn’t for the faint-hearted investors. This strategy requires market knowledge, financial intelligence, and luck. However, investors can follow two cents of advice to increase their chances of success with hot money:
The hot money often results in economic and financial consequences on countries. The economy in which the funds are pumped gain in terms of the value of their currency, and the exchange rate goes up, while the economy from which there are hot money outflow suffers from a weakening currency and so lower exchange rate.
Some importance of hot money outflow and inflow are as follows.
This has been a guide to Hot Money and its meaning. We explain it with example, purpose, types, risk, investing in it, effects and importance.

A Defined Benefit Plan (DBP) is an employer-funded pension scheme set up to pay a pre-established amount on retirement to employees. Under this arrangement, a company takes full responsibility for planning its employees’ retirement fund. This plan offers the twin advantage of greater tax deductions to the sponsor company and a guaranteed retirement income to its employees.

DBP is a formula-based pension plan. The retirement income is pre-defined by a formula based on the employee’s retirement age, compensation history, and duration of service. The employee may choose a fixed incomeFixed IncomeFixed Income refers to those investments that pay fixed interests and dividends to the investors until maturity. Government and corporate bonds are examples of fixed income investments.read more for every month for as long as the employee lives post-retirement or may retire with a hefty amount provided all at once.
DBP is a traditional pension vehicle for employees primarily sponsored by employers. The crucial element of this scheme is that the employers take the onus of saving for employees’ retirement on their behalf. Federal insurance usually secures this plan through the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Under this approach, the pension benefits at retirement are calculatedPension Benefits At Retirement Are CalculatedPension funds are contributions made by an employer to an employee's retirement. A pension calculator helps determine the eligible amount that the employee is eligible for and is calculated as:
AS x F x N, where, AS - average salary per company rules, F - factors in the percentage, n - time.
read more well in advance using a formula based on employees’ years of service, age, and salary. This computation enables the employees to have an estimate of the income they are likely to receive on retirement beforehand.
To reserve funds for making pension payments to its retired employees, the employer contributes to a fund earmarked for it. Contributions are invested to generate returns. The company typically hires a third party to look after the investment strategiesInvestment StrategiesInvestment strategies assist investors in determining where and how to invest based on their expected return, risk appetite, corpus amount, holding period, retirement age, industry of choice, and so on.read more of the fund. The returns from these investments are used to guarantee a fixed monthly income to the employees at the end of their working life. The employees may also opt to receive a lump sum at retirement.
Note that the company bears all risk of non-performance of invested contributions, thus using its earningsEarningsEarnings are usually defined as the net income of the company obtained after reducing the cost of sales, operating expenses, interest, and taxes from all the sales revenue for a specific time period. In the case of an individual, it comprises wages or salaries or other payments.read more to compensate in case of any funding deficit. In other words, the employee must receive the stipulated amount irrespective of the cost to the company.
However, to be eligible for a DBP, an employee must serve a company for a particular time or years. It is referred to as vestingVestingVesting refers to a process granting an employee complete control or ownership over the employer-sponsored investment assets or accounts over time. Under a set schedule, the company usually offers funds or accounts as part of the compensation package. It can be time-based, milestones-based, or hybrid.read more. Only a vested employee is entitled to retirement income under this plan. However, if an employee leaves the company before completing the vested years, the employee cannot claim any benefits under the scheme.
This pension planPension PlanA pension plan is a retirement plan where the employer makes a guaranteed payment to the employee once they retire. Every month, the employee receives a specified income post-retirement derived from earnings on its employer’s investments.read more is advantageous for both employees as well as employers. Employees benefit from assured retirement income without facing any investment risks, while employers get liberal tax rebates. However, setting up and maintaining this plan is costly and complicated.
Over the years, the paradigm shift in the tax laws and DBP’s complexity paved the way for the emergence of an alternative pension scheme called the Defined Contribution PlanDefined Contribution PlanA defined contribution pension plan is when the employer and the employee frequently make a significant amount of contributions to enable employees to save a decent amount of money for the retirement period and leave with the utmost dignity in their retirement phase.read more. Consequently, most modern corporates and private sectorPrivate SectorThe private sector is a section of the national economy that the government does not own. The business conducted under this sector is carried out by companies or entrepreneurs who focus on profit maximization and customer satisfaction.read more firms replaced DBP with Defined Contribution Plans.
The main difference between a DBP and a Defined Contribution Plan lies in who bears the burden of contributing to retirement funds. In the former, it is undertaken by the employer, while in the latter, the employee and employer both contribute to the employee’s retirement account.
Moreover, in the Defined Contribution Plan, employees endure the investment risks associated with the pension funds. Therefore, unlike DBP, the retirement income is not fixed. The most common and popular Defined Contribution Plans are 401(K) and 403(B) plans. 
As per a CNBC article on pension finance, companies have been phasing out of DBP in favor of the Defined Contribution Plan over the past two decades.
The DBPs are classified into two types, which are:
Pensions are a fixed amount employees receive every month after their retirement. They are calculated based on a formula that considers their served period and compensation. Sometimes age is also considered a factor.
The employee receives the pension as periodical payments or commuted value at retirement. Note that an employee becomes eligible for a Defined Benefit Pension Plan only after serving for a certain period.
The Cash Balance Plans allow employees to set up a retirement account to claim when they leave the company. The cash balance in the retirement account is maintained by contributions from the employer (a percentage of employee’s pay) and interest on such contributions. This way, the retirement account balance will have a pre-defined amount at retirement. Here also, the investment risksInvestment RisksInvestment risk is the probability or uncertainty of losses rather than expected profit from investment due to a fall in the fair price of securities such as bonds, stocks, real estate. In addition, each type of investment is prone to some degree of investment or default risk.read more are borne by the employer.
Every year, the employer will assess the account, and at the time of retirement, the cash balance in the account is received by the employee in the form of an ” url=”https://www.wallstreetmojo.com/annuity-formula/”]annuity”Annuity””An (fixed monthly payout) or one-time payment. An employee can choose either of the payment options.
Judy and Jennifer are both neighbors. They both started their jobs on the same day in two different companies. They worked hard and climbed the corporate ladder with perks, promotions, incentives, and salary hikes. Both Judy and Jennifer worked for their respective companies for 35 years and retired. 
Judy’s company provided the traditional defined pension plan, wherein the company contributed to a retirement fund that would be used to finance Judy’s pension. Her retirement income was computed using a formula based on her age, salary, and service tenure.
Judy opted to receive it in the form of a pension, enjoying a fixed amount every month. She knew beforehand the amount she would receive at retirement and planned her retirement life accordingly.  
On the other hand, Jennifer’s company employed the cash balance plan. The company created a notional retirement account in which it put a portion of her pay and the interest earned from it. Finally, Jennifer received the total cash balance in her account, accumulated over the years, on her retirement.
She cashed the account on retirement, withdrawing a lump sum amount of money at once. She reinvested her retirement income effectively and reaped benefits from it for the remainder of her life.
DBP helped Judy and Jennifer secure their old age without bearing any risk. All saving and investment risks were assumed by their employers. They both made their individual choice on how to receive the amount and enjoyed their retirement fund.
As per a report in Reuters earlier this year, OMERS, the most popular DBP Pension in Canada, reported their first annual loss after the financial crisis. They have blamed the COVID 19 pandemic for it. The pandemic adversely impacted the economy, reducing the returns on OMERS’ investment portfolios, which averaged at 11.2% until 2019.
DBPs are traditional retirement plans for employees offered and supported by the employers alone. The employers take full responsibility for paying every employee the entitled fund by assuming the investment risks and abiding by the regulations. 
The employers contribute to their employees’ retirement funds, and the amount is calculated based on the years of service, age, and salary history of the employees. However, an employee has to serve a specific time to become eligible for the DBP.
Typically, only employers contribute to the DBP dedicated to employees taking full responsibility for investment, returns, maturity, and other factors. However, an employee may contribute to its DBP in some instances. Still, before all of this, an employee must serve a specific time to qualify for the DBP.
This has been a Guide to Defined Benefit Plan and its definition. Here we discuss how  Defined Benefit Plan works and its types, examples, and a comparison with defined contribution plans. 
An investment company is an organization, trust, or entity that collects capital from various investors to reinvest it in financial securities such as equity, debt, and a wide range of money market instruments. The three investment company types are open-end, closed-end, and Unit Investment Trusts (UIT).
The company shares the profit and losses with the investor in proportion to the investor’s interest in the company. They employ financial managers who make important financial decisions on behalf of the investors. The investors can thus enjoy access to many investment products that otherwise need extensive research and preparation.


An investment company pools resources from many investors and invests substantially in various asset classesAsset ClassesAssets are classified into various classes based on their type, purpose, or the basis of return or markets. Fixed assets, equity (equity investments, equity-linked savings schemes), real estate, commodities (gold, silver, bronze), cash and cash equivalents, derivatives (equity, bonds, debt), and alternative investments such as hedge funds and bitcoins are examples.read more and security instruments. The company collects funds from multiple investors. It then invests its entirety in various types of assets, including debtDebtDebt is the practice of borrowing a tangible item, primarily money by an individual, business, or government, from another person, financial institution, or state.read more, equityEquityEquity refers to investor’s ownership of a company representing the amount they would receive after liquidating assets and paying off the liabilities and debts. It is the difference between the assets and liabilities shown on a company's balance sheet.read more, shares, and properties.
The company will earn returns on its portfolio in interest, dividendsDividendsDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more, etc. These returns are then forwarded to the individual investors, based on their share of the total investment fund. For example, suppose a company invests $2 million, and one has invested $40,000 with this company. They will get 2 percent of whatever returns the company generates.
The type of assets chosen to invest will depend on the overarching management objective of that particular company. For instance, suppose the aim is the quick growth of investments. Then a large portion of funds will be invested in shares and equity, as these assets yield the highest returns.
Suppose the objective is to generate stable, long-term returns while minimizing risk. Then debt securities and commercial real-estate investments will be preferred, as they are less volatile than equity.
Investment companies in the US are regulated under the Securities and exchanges commission (SEC) . They must also be registered under the Investment company act of 1940 and the Securities act of 1933.
An individual investor will get several benefits from the pooling of funds. For instance, investment companies employ experienced and qualified finance managers. As a result, they can provide professional investment management services that allow investors to reach their investment goals quickly and with minimal risk.
Investment companies also provide ample opportunities for diversification. For example, an individual investor might research a single asset class like the stock marketStock MarketStock Market works on the basic principle of matching supply and demand through an auction process where investors are willing to pay a certain amount for an asset, and they are willing to sell off something they have at a specific price.read more or real estate and then invest all the money there. It is extremely difficult for one person to have in-depth knowledge about different investment vehicles or assets. This can also be risky as one would lose all their money if the stock market crashes or if the housing market collapses, like the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008Subprime Mortgage Crisis Of 2008A subprime mortgage is a loan against property offered to borrowers with a weak or no credit history. Since the risk of recovering is high, the interest rate charged on such mortgages is higher so that the lender can recover a maximum amount at the beginning of the loan.read more.
An investment company can help investors diversify their investments with the help of multiple financial managers and experts who have great knowledge about various asset classes. As a result, they can take the accumulated savings of many different investors and invest the money wisely in real estate, stock market, optionsOptionsOptions are financial contracts which allow the buyer a right, but not an obligation to execute the contract. The right is to buy or sell an asset on a specific date at a specific price which is predetermined at the contract date.read more, and commodities.
Let us take a look at some investment company examples. Imagine a person who has lived frugally for a few years and has managed to save a substantial portion of income. They would now like to invest their savings to earn a profit, either in interest, dividends, or asset appreciation.
They could invest money directly in real estate or the stock market, but this would require a substantial amount of time-consuming research. This is where investment companies come in. Investing indirectly through a company can take some emotional weight out of a person’s financial decisions. One will have experienced financial experts guiding them and managing their portfolioManaging Their PortfolioPortfolio management involves overseeing a set of investments, including securities, bonds, exchange-traded funds, mutual funds, cryptocurrencies, etc., on a personal or professional levelread more, ensuring that they stick to the long-term goals and ignore the daily market fluctuations, scary though they might be.
With countries and states still struggling to recover from the impacts of the pandemic, the importance of investment companies has never been more evident. Unfortunately, when the economyEconomyAn economy comprises individuals, commercial entities, and the government involved in the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of products and services in a society.read more slows down or shows signs of going into recession, individual investors tend to panic, withdrawing their investments from the market. They may also make counterproductive investment decisions driven by fear rather than sound market analysis.
It is rarely a good idea to exit the market when you have recently suffered a major loss. This instinctive reaction to losing a large amount of money often causes people to sell at low prices and buy at higher rates later after the market has once again stabilized.
An investment company will help a person define clear, achievable, and measurable goals, determine how much risk they can take on, and diversify their portfolioDiversify Their PortfolioPortfolio diversification refers to the practice of investing in a different assets in order to maximize returns while minimizing risk. This way, the risk is kept to a minimal while the investor accumulates many assets. Investment diversification leads to a healthy portfolio.read more so that they don’t face financial ruin if one asset class is in jeopardy. This will help an investor stay on course and come out of these economically turbulent times relatively unscathed.
However, when one chooses an investment company, they must ensure that the company does not charge any hidden fees or other associated costs. If one chooses a company without doing some research into their fee structure, they could end up paying nine times more money in the form of seemingly small costs.
The three major categories of registered investment companies are as follows:

An investment company invests in securities by pooling resources and funds from multiple investors. They invest on behalf of the investors and share the profit and losses with them in proportion to the investor’s share of interest.
An investment company employs experienced and qualified finance managers who can take clever financial decisions an ordinary investor cannot. The investor can enjoy easy access to a number of investment products without the effort of research and preparation. The company also helps an investor diversify their investment portfolio, as investing in a single asset class can be quite risky.
The investment company makes money by investing in various financial instruments on behalf of its clients. In return, the client provides it a fee in a percentage of profit or asset.
This has been a guide to the investment company and its definition. Here we explain how it works along with examples, types, and benefits.
Green Investments are investment activity that focuses on projects or areas that are committed to preservation of the environment such as Pollution reduction, Fossil fuel reduction, conservation of natural resources, generation of alternative energy sources, project related to cleaning and maintenance of air and water, waste management or any other type of environmentally-conscious practices.


The green investing funds can be raised by private equity firmsPrivate Equity FirmsPrivate equity firms are investment managers who invest in many corporations' private equities using various strategies such as leveraged buyouts, growth capital, and venture capital. The top private equity firms include Apollo Global Management LLC, Blackstone Group LP, Carlyle Group, and KKR & Company LP.read more, corporations, hedge fundsHedge FundsA hedge fund is an aggressively invested portfolio made through pooling of various investors and institutional investor’s fund. It supports various assets providing high returns in exchange for higher risk through multiple risk management and hedging techniques.read more, or even individuals. Some green investment options with the investor include securities, electronically traded funds, mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more, and bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more and can be offered by the governments as well sometimes for generating revenue to fund its projects or the businesses.
Green investments are an investment which include securities, electronically traded funds, mutual funds, and bonds in which the person issuing the instruments is involved in operations that have the ultimate aim of improving the environment. It can be any company, whether it is involved in the development of alternative energy technology or the company that has the best environmental practices etc. Under this, the funds are allocated towards those projects which work for the benefit of the environment
All the investors investing in green investments should be aware of companies that simply raise funds as green investing for the purpose of branding only and do not follow the steps which were promised initially by them at the time of raising funds. Therefore ,the current, as well as the potential investors, should research in a proper way before making any investments in the companies, green fund prospectus, and other parameters such as annual filing of the stock. After analyzing, they should see whether investment includes companies that fit in their personal definition or area.
Let us understand the concept of green investment stocks and their intricacies with the help of a couple of examples. 
Julie is an environmentalist and a social activist who has neglected to concentrate on her own personal finance. When one of her friends explained the importance of creating a discipline where she could make saving and investing a habit, she finally gave in and agreed to invest.
However, being someone who has dedicated her whole adulthood toward the betterment of nature, she wanted to make sure that she invests only in companies that do not harm the environment or even better, work towards the betterment of it.
Therefore, she invested her first $1,000 in companies manufacturing solar power units, electric vehicles, and windmills.
source: Reuters.com
Green investments can be in the form of securities, electronically traded funds, mutual funds, and bonds. For example, the Green bond issued by the company Apple worth $ 1.5 billion was the first-ever green bond which was issued by the technology company, and the same was highly popular. The bond even won an award from Environmental Finance in the year 2016.
Another example of green investment includes the sustainability bond issued by Starbucks with the motive of sustainable agriculture improvements, which also gained high popularity.
There are several different advantages of urban green investments, providing the opportunity for the investors as well as for the company to raise funds through these investments. However, there are a handful of disadvantages that must be kept in mind both while investing and while learning about this concept. Let us discuss them through the points below.
This has been a guide to what are Green Investment. Here we explain its examples and discuss its advantages and disadvantages in detail. You can earn more about investment from the following articles –
A fund manager refers to an investment professional responsible for fund investment strategy formulation and implementation. They collect and invest the money from various investors and create a good variety of managed funds catering to the diverse preferences exhibited by the investors. 
The investment professional is entitled to manage the funds’ portfolio and associated trading activities. Their goal is to maximize gains while minimizing risk. In addition, they often gain a competitive advantage through product innovation by working on the characteristics of the funds offered, investing in brand promotion, advertising, and offering attractive fee structures and discounts.

Fund managers’ skills and performance play a significant role in fund performance. Their investment styles, timing skills, and better stock-picking ability result in higher returns and better performance. When investors lack the expertise and time to study the market, they choose fund management companies. Investor trust management professional’s abilities and enters into contracts for fund management. However, the investor also can place constraints on the manager’s actions.

A fund management professional has several responsibilities. Client communication is one of the essential elements helping the investing professionals streamline investing activities with the investors’ preferences and convey the portfolio performance. 
Identifying investments that have a high potential for gains with minimal risk and engaging in picking several of such assets to populate a fund’s investment portfolioInvestment PortfolioPortfolio investments are investments made in a group of assets (equity, debt, mutual funds, derivatives or even bitcoins) instead of a single asset with the objective of earning returns that are proportional to the investor's risk profile.read more is vital. So, it is necessary to conduct extensive research and analysis to get information about market sentiments, economyEconomyAn economy comprises individuals, commercial entities, and the government involved in the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of products and services in a society.read more, global events, and what is happening with the companies whose stocks are part of the fund’s portfolio. Then, the study results are used to optimize current and future investment decisions.
In the United States, the fund manager salary (average base pay) based on data updated on December 2021 is $72,490. There are many famous managers whose earning is in billions in a year. In 2020, Israel Englander of Millennium Management’s earned $3.8 billion and topped the list of highest-earning managers 2020. In the same year, amid covid 19 pandemic and market volatility, the top 25 hedge fund managers’ earnings accounted for a record amount of $32 billion, and the top 10 managers globally earned $20.1 billion.
The fund manager’s fee is often linked to the value of the asset under management (AUM); that is, it will be a percentage of AUM or fund value. Therefore, the total amount a fund management professional gets depends on the size of the fund they manage. Usually, actively-managed funds come with higher fees compared to passively managed. Nevertheless, it is not assured that actively-managed funds do outperform passively-managed funds.
Nowadays, managers charging a fee of less than 1% or more than 2% of AUM is not uncommon. Traditionally, managers apply the “two and twenty” fee method for charging their customers. The two refer to the standard 2% of the value of the assets under the management and is paid to the manager annually. The 20% fee is paid when the investments yield a profit that exceeds a certain threshold. The 20% of profit is considered the bread and butter for managers since it makes many millionaires and even billionaires. The key is to carefully invest the money for maximum returns so that the manager can gain a profit that exceeds the minimum required level to get the 20% bonus.
It can be lucrative to become renowned fund management professional. To be successful, in-depth knowledge of financial assetsFinancial AssetsFinancial assets are investment assets whose value derives from a contractual claim on what they represent. These are liquid assets because the economic resources or ownership can be converted into a valuable asset such as cash.read more and the market is essential. Most firms prefer candidates with significant qualifications like CFA certification, financial analyst certifications, CFP certification, MBA or masters in accounting, finance, statisticsStatisticsStatistics is the science behind identifying, collecting, organizing and summarizing, analyzing, interpreting, and finally, presenting such data, either qualitative or quantitative, which helps make better and effective decisions with relevance.read more, mathematics, or certified in advanced investment analysis and portfolio management. The courses should ideally be in investment-related fields. Even undergraduates can enter the financial analysis field as junior analysts and start their journey to become fund management professionals. 
The qualification requirements may vary by country. For example, to become a fund manager in Australia professional must hold an Australian Financial Services License. On the other hand, the US license requirement may vary with the factors like the type of investmentType Of InvestmentStocks, bonds, and cash equivalents are the three main forms of investments. Investment, in general, refers to the purchase of anything for future use with the goal of generating a regular cash flow or increasing the value of something over time so that it can be sold for a higher price than it was purchased for, i.e. capital gains. read more involved, the fund manager’s company policies, legislation of the state where the fund is registered. For instance, some companies require professionals to undergo a course before handling customers’ assets.
Regulatory bodies like FINRA give different certificates and licenses depending on what type of fund management professional one would want to become. Furthermore, some state mandates a series 65 license, and some require official registration as an investment advisor. Generally, in the United States, persons who manage the portfolios of registered investment companies must register with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 
To enter into the fund management field, a candidate primarily requires an undergraduate degree in a relevant field like commerce, business, economics, or mathematics. Eventually, they can advance the career path by gaining experience, higher degrees, applicable licenses, and certifications like CFA.
The fund management professionals essentially manage fund structure and asset allocation on behalf of investors to deliver better returns. The process requires adequate client communications, extensive research, and analysis to pick and sell the stocks based on the underlying investment strategy.
An investment manager deals with investment decisions on behalf of clients ranging from financial planning, portfolio management, and reporting to the client. In comparison, fund management professionals’ main focus is on buying and selling securities to optimize the fund assets.
This has been a guide to Fund Manager and its Meaning. Here we discuss how to become a fund manager with its salary, fees, and job. 
A pension plan is a retirement plan where the employer makes a guaranteed payment to the employee once they retire. Employees receive a specified monthly income post-retirement from their employer’s investment
A pension plan differs from a 401k plan in that the employer, rather than the employee, contributes to the retirement funds. However, these plans vary depending on the employer and the employee’s tenure with the company. The pension amount will typically be a percentage of the employee’s regular salary during their employment with the company.
Pension plans are benefitsBenefitsA Defined Benefit Plan (DBP) is an employer-funded pension scheme set up to pay a pre-established amount on retirement to employees. Under this arrangement, a company takes full responsibility for planning its employees’ retirement fund. This plan offers the twin advantage of greater tax deductions to the sponsor company and a guaranteed retirement income to its employees.read more, meaning an employer will guarantee the employee a payment once the employee retires. The payments will be consistent, giving the employee a reliable income stream during retirement. These plans are not the same as 401k, although many people confuse them with one another.

Below are the common aspects of pension plans and how they work to give the employee a retirement income:
These plans are employer-funded, meaning the organization will contribute to a retirement portfolio for the employee. It also means that the employee will not contribute to the fund at their own expense. However, the employee can also contribute to the fund in some cases.
With the contributions on the employee’s behalf, the company will invest in a portfolio containing various securities. The fund’s primary goal is to grow the investments over time and give the company the money needed to make payments to the employee during retirement.
Until recently, pension funds almost exclusively invested in safer stocks and bonds. Now the funds will be distributed to an assortment of diverse investments, including:
According to research from the National Association of State Retirement Administrators (NASRA), the average pension fund will distribute 47.1% of the fund in public equities (stocks), followed by 24% in fixed incomeFixed IncomeFixed Income refers to those investments that pay fixed interests and dividends to the investors until maturity. Government and corporate bonds are examples of fixed income investments.read more (bonds), 19% in alternative investmentsAlternative InvestmentsAlternative investments refer to investments made in assets classified as non-traditional investment vehicles.read more, 7% in real estate, and 2% in cash and cash equivalentsCash And Cash EquivalentsCash and Cash Equivalents are assets that are short-term and highly liquid investments that can be readily converted into cash and have a low risk of price fluctuation.  Cash and paper money, US Treasury bills, undeposited receipts, and Money Market funds are its examples. They are normally found as a line item on the top of the balance sheet asset. read more.
In most cases, the size of pension payout depends on the length of time the employee worked for the company and how much they earned during their tenure.
Every plan will have different terms and conditions that apply to them based on what the employer has set in place. However, the pension plan calculatorPension Plan CalculatorPension funds are contributions made by an employer to an employee's retirement. A pension calculator helps determine the eligible amount that the employee is eligible for and is calculated as:
AS x F x N, where, AS - average salary per company rules, F - factors in the percentage, n - time.
read more to determine a payout amount will work like this:
(Years Employed * Accrual Rate * Average Salary)
In this case, the Years Employed would be the years the employee worked for a particular employer.
The Accrual Rate will be the amount of interest applied, typically a part of the employee’s retirement benefits with their employer. It is a significant factor as it will be multiplied by the total years of employment and the average salary to determine the pension payout. The higher the accrual rate the employee receives, the greater their retirement plan will be.
The Average Salary calculation considers the average salary of the last few years of employment. Depending on the employee’s location, it could be the final three or five years of work.
For example, an employee worked at a company for 25 years. A standard accrual rate is around 2%, and their average salary is $100,000.
In this case, the pension payout amount would be 25 * 2% * 100,000 = $50,000 a year.
Although they will vary based on certain conditions, there are two primary types of such plans, including:

Nowadays, pension plans are not as usual as they once were, partly due to the employer’s contribution. Employers will often offer these plans to lure and keep talent because of the benefits they can offer. These benefits include:
One of the most significant benefits of these plans is the guaranteed payouts once the employee retires. Unlike other retirement plans, these plans do not rely on the performance of any financial market. Instead, these plans will base their payment on employment-related factors.
The employer typically manages these plans. It works in most people’s favor as not everyone is a financial expert. With other retirement plans, the employee will have to manage their investments.
The employer may have to step in and contribute if the fund does not perform well enough. If they go bankrupt and cannot make the payments, an agency like the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) will often step in.
Pension plans and 401k plans401k Plans401k plan refers to a systematic tax-deferred retirement approach whereby the employees can contribute a certain amount towards their retirement savings through the automatic payroll withholding. The employer also contributes an equivalent or lower amount in this plan for the employees' retirement.read more are two types of retirement plans that often get mistaken. While the former is a defined benefit plan without employer matches, the latter is a defined contribution plan with employer matches. Here are a few key differences between them:
One of the main differences between both plans is the contributions made. The employer makes the contributions with pension plans, whereas with 401k plans, the employee contributes, and the employer can match it.
With pension plans, the employee guarantees payments after retirement. In 401k plans, the payout will only last as long as funds are there.
Employers will have control over the investments before retirement with pension plans. It is different from 401k plans, where the employee will have control over assets.
This has been a guide to a Pension Plan and its definition. Here we discuss how it works, its types, benefits, and differences from the 401K plan. 
Asset management is investing clients’ money in the right assets to ensure optimum returns. Asset management companies (AMCs) make investment decisions on behalf of their clients. These companies usually serve huge organizations like insurance companies, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and High-Net-Worth Individuals.
Asset management is driven by an investment mandate. The mandate contains instructions to manage a certain pool of assets in a specific way. Asset managers follow these predetermined risk parameters and investment strategiesInvestment StrategiesInvestment strategies assist investors in determining where and how to invest based on their expected return, risk appetite, corpus amount, holding period, retirement age, industry of choice, and so on.read more. For these services, asset management companies charge a significant amount in fees.

Asset managers strategically design and manage client asset portfolios to ensure growth. To diversify client portfolios, Asset Management companies Asset Management Companies An Asset Management Company (AMC) refers to a fund house, which pools money from various sources and invests the same in purchasing capital on behalf of their investors.read more(AMCs) include various asset classes. AMCs combine equities, bonds, cash, cash equivalents, real estate, mutual funds, commodities, and marketable securities. There is a minimum investment limit below which AMCs don’t take up projects. This is also known as the wealth limit.
Though employing an Asset Management Company is an expensive proposition, it sure comes with its perks. For starters, an AMC holds expertise. Moreover, clients save time, money, and effort. Additionally, asset managers research a wide range of investments before settling on handpicked options that suit the client. The benefits go beyond just profits, AMCs also facilitate risk mitigation. AMCs provide their clients with alternative investment services; brokerage, credit cards, money market fundsMoney Market FundsA money market fund is a form of short-term debt security or open-ended mutual fund with a shorter maturity, offering good returns at high liquidity and low credit risk. The instruments it invests in include US Treasury bills, bank debt funds, and corporate commercial papers that could be taxable or free from tax.read more, and debit cards.  
Despite the promise, the limitations cannot be overlooked. Most AMCs don’t serve low-end investors, be it an individual or a small business. Also, these firms charge a significant fee for managing. For some clients, this becomes an avoidable burden. Experience and expertise do not eliminate human error; strategies can go wrong, potentially resulting in a significant loss for the client.
An asset management system is a framework that facilitates the use of various business software, applications, and infrastructureInfrastructureInfrastructure refers to fundamental physical and technological frameworks that a region or industry establishes for its economy to function properly.read more to strategically plan and manage assets. The system focuses on optimum returns and balancing risk. In addition, it keeps an eye on the asset performance throughout its lifespan.
In other words, it simplifies the tracking of corporate assets, their condition and facilitates better planning. In order to maximize returns, the cost of maintaining operational and fixed assetsFixed AssetsFixed assets are assets that are held for the long term and are not expected to be converted into cash in a short period of time. Plant and machinery, land and buildings, furniture, computers, copyright, and vehicles are all examples.read more should be minimized. An asset could be finance, property, plant, equipment, IT, or personnel. Ivanti, GoCodes, Asset Panda, and InvGate are the popular software used for managing assets.

Managing assets involve the following steps:
The different methods of managing assets are as follows.
Consider the following examples to better understand how assets are managed.
J.P. Morgan aims to build and strengthen the client’s portfolio. The AMC manages individuals, intermediaries, and institutions. They have a global team of investment professionals to introduce well-researched investment opportunities.
Their trending options include ETF investing, separately managed accountsManaged AccountsManaged account refers to a customized investment account managed by a professional investment manager on behalf of an investor. The manager creates a portfolio of investments keeping in mind an investor’s financial needs and goals.read more, variable insurance portfolios, commingled pension trust funds, and sustainable investments.
Credit Suisse is another big name among AMCs. This corporation has come up with innovative solutions by exploring a range of different asset classesAsset ClassesAssets are classified into various classes based on their type, purpose, or the basis of return or markets. Fixed assets, equity (equity investments, equity-linked savings schemes), real estate, commodities (gold, silver, bronze), cash and cash equivalents, derivatives (equity, bonds, debt), and alternative investments such as hedge funds and bitcoins are examples.read more. In addition, they have added the ESG factor to their product range and have worked upon interesting investment themes like edutainment, security, and digital health.
They offer a wide range of products, including sustainable investing, thematic equity investing, convertible bonds, and emerging corporate bonds. At present, they have 471 billion CHF worth of Assets under Management (AuM).
The benefits of hiring AMCs are as follows.
Careers in Asset Management Companies include financial analysts, financial advisors, investment brokers, portfolio managersPortfolio ManagersA portfolio manager is a financial market expert who strategically designs investment portfolios.read more, and asset managers.  Most AMCs are mutual fund companies or investment banks. To begin with, aspirants need a finance or economics degree. Candidates can acquire advanced finance certificationsFinance CertificationsFinancial certifications are obtained by completing key finance courses such as CFA (Certified Financial Analyst), FRM (Financial Risk Management), financial modeling, Investment Banking courses, and so on.read more and degree courses like chartered financial analyst (CFA), MBA Finance, and FINRA series six exams. Subsequently, with added experience, analysts can scale up to become an advisor and even a manager.
The only way to succeed in this career is by building effective relationships and a growing clientele. Glassdoor reports an average of $95002 offered to asset managers in the US. The base pay starts at $56000 and goes as high as $200000. Asset-managemt is a promising career option.
Asset Management Companies create asset portfolios. They streamline clients’ financial resources into the right investment options. The purpose of an AMC is to yield maximum returns and mitigate risk.
The different asset classes include equities, commodities, bonds, futures, derivatives, real estate, cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and mutual funds.
Asset Management is a rewarding career option. There is a wide range of opportunities for the aspirants in large financial corporations like JP Morgan, Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley, Soltage, and Deutschebank. Growth opportunities are even better than the banking sector. Aspiring candidates require analytical skills, market knowledge, decision-making ability, problem-solving, and communication skill.
This has been a guide to Asset Management and its meaning. Here we discuss asset management system, process, and importance using examples. 
Absolute return refers to the percentage of value appreciation or depreciation of an asset or fund over a certain period. Such assets include mutual funds, stocks and fixed deposits.
Here we only talk about a single asset, and the return generated and do not take any consideration of any benchmark or compare itself with any set metrics. It can also be negative depending on the return it generates, but we cannot claim that it is dependent on market activities. Absolute return in no manner has any kind of correlation to market factors.

Absolute Return = {(Current Sale Value – Purchase Value)/Purchase Value}*100
Here the current sales value is the actual price the asset owner is selling the asset after including the appreciation or depreciation of the assetDepreciation Of The AssetDepreciation is a systematic allocation method used to account for the costs of any physical or tangible asset throughout its useful life. Its value indicates how much of an asset’s worth has been utilized. Depreciation enables companies to generate revenue from their assets while only charging a fraction of the cost of the asset in use each year.
read more, and purchase value is the cost of procuring the asset at the initial point of purchase.
A simple scenario is where a person is investing in fixed deposits to generate a return and make some money based on the interest generated. Now, suppose a person has invested a sum of $10,000 in fixed deposits at a certain bank. After a span of a year, when we want to claim back, the money has grown to $12,000 after an accumulation of the interest earned on the fixed deposit.
Thus the gain made over the investment was $12,000 – $10,000 = $2000, which is explained in percentage terms as 20% of the original sum invested. Thus, this can be stated as the absolute return, and the calculation can be as follows: ($2000/$10,000)*100 = 20%. They are very effective only when we have a set period to calculate or like when we know the start date and the end date of the investment.
One key strategy for absolute return is that they are not dependent on any standard or benchmark. Most funds that operate in the market have always defined their performance relative to some other benchmark. Thus if a fund does better than the benchmark, it is considered to be good even if the return generated by it is negative and similarly, if the same fund is not performing well compared to the benchmark, it is considered to be bad even if the fund itself is meeting its objective set and generating a good return Thus, it does not take into account any of the benchmark or standard set. It is only considered about its own performance and returns generated.
The other strategy which can be linked to absolute return is that they are generally perceived as the one who worries about the portfolio. While other fund managers are concerned about what can go right, fund managers considering absolute returns are worried about what can go wrong and thus manage the risk based on it. This offers them a scope of diversification of the portfolio where fund managers invest in a diverse set of avenues blindly by seeing options that offer positive returns and have the least volatility.
Lastly, users are always in a lookout of returns, which have the least correlation as compared to traditional stocks and bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more. Correlation is the measure of the magnitude of how much two sources of return are dependent on each other and to what extent. Thus lack of correlation at times can be useful because when the market goes to a downside trend, not all elements of a portfolio will be impacted.
Absolute return can be classified as a period to period return where we have a fixed starting point and a fixed ending point. It is very handy when we want to calculate either a 3-month return or six months or annual or three years or 5-year return. Generally, when the period is more than a year, it is advisable to use the CAGR formulaUse The CAGR FormulaCAGR (Compounded Annual Growth Rate) is calculated by dividing the value of the investment available at the period’s end by its beginning value and then raising the resultant to the exponent of one divided by number of the years and subtracting one from resultant.(Ending Value/Beginning Value) ^ (1/No. of Periods) – 1read more. So, absolute return is like we have an investor who has invested a sum of $10,000 in shares. After a span of a year, when we want to sell his shares, the money has grown to $12,000. Thus the gain made over the investment was $12,000 – $10,000 = $2000, which is explained in percentage terms as 20% of the original sum invested. Thus, this can be stated as the absolute return, and the calculation can be as follows: ($2000/$10,000)*100 = 20%.
The same, when explained on the basis of total return, is almost the same as absolute return, just with a small difference where the role of dividendDividendDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more comes into action. The total return also takes into account the dividend paid by the company one has invested. Suppose the company has given $30 s the dividend on and above the $2000 gain, the total gain here becomes $2030, and thus the total return is calculated as ($2030/$10,000)*100 = 20.3%. So the total return is slightly here, which is 20.3%.
Absolute return is a very safe approach to calculate returns but has some drawbacks too, as, on a long-term view, it excludes several factors that may affect our investment or related to our investment. It is a good and simple way to calculate returns, but when it comes to the real scenario, it should be coupled with other types of returns, too, like total returns or CAGR techniques. The very aim of adding the absolute return to the portfolio is to enhance the risk-adjusted return of our portfolio, coupled with a higher level of return at the expense of the least volatility.
This has been a guide to Absolute Return and its Meaning. Here we discuss an example of absolute return along with its formula, strategies, and its differences with the total return. 
Risk-seeking is a high-risk, high-reward approach to investing. In financial markets, risk-takers take eccentric positions despite visible risks. The risk here refers to price fluctuations and investment positions.

Investors with high risk-appetites are more likely to take a direction contrary to their fellow investors. But not just financial, risk-taking affects all aspects of life. For example, the stock market attracts risk takers; here, investors taking high risks can also end up with high rewards.
Risk-seeking is the ability to bet or take a higher risk position. It can be attributed to personality, as well as mindset. Some individuals have a higher risk appetite; they are inclined toward risk-oriented predicaments because they seek higher returns. In finance, a high-risk appetite is mostly associated with investors and intraday traders.
In the stock market, risk-seeking investors are a subset who bet oddly. Stereotypically, these investors conduct minimal research before investing. They might even ignore fundamental metrics associated with the underlying firm. Nonetheless, risk takers know to identify good stocks and interpret future price variations.
With such high-risk investments, there is a lot of uncertainty. It is important to note that not all high-risk investors have a high-risk appetite. Because not all investors are aware of the risk associated with their investments, ideally, investors must first confirm their risk appetite before taking massive risks. If not, it might all end up in huge losses.

Risk-taking is not limited to finance. There is a certain stereotype against high-risk appetite—risk takers are considered greedy, someone who expects unrealistic returns in a short period. In contrast, a huge section of society is risk-averse. They take as few risks as possible. Nonetheless, everyone wants a high return portfolio. But again, only a few are willing to take huge risks to achieve that.  
For natural risk takers, the reward is so important that they are willing to suffer losses. But this approach is not recommended by market experts and trade analysts. Because markets are very uncertain, price volatility is a serious concern for investors. Most economic theories reject this high-risk approach.
Raven and Rosamund are office colleagues. They have the same job title and draw the same remuneration. Each possesses a small portfolio—they readily invest in stocks and other forms of assets.
There is a difference, though; Raven has a riskier approach toward investment. Raven buys penny stocks and takes various positions in options trading and futures contracts. Raven undertakes minimal research; she is more inclined towards high-risk maneuvers. As a result, Raven books higher returns than Rosamund. But, in the long run, the risk will likely catch up with her. She could lose a large sum of money at once. Raven is a typical example of a risk-seeking individual.
Rosamund is the opposite of Raven; she is a risk-averse investor. Rosamund, on the other hand, has a stable portfolio. She only invests in blue chip stocks. In addition, she invests only when she fully understands a particular financial instrument. Rosamund follows SIP and believes in long-term wealth creation.
Risk-taking abilities vary from one investor to another. Individuals are categorized into three types based on risk: risk-averse, risk-neutral, and risk-seeking. The graph shows the risk-seeking and risk aversion curves form a lens shape. This is intersected by a straight-line utility function depicting risk-neutral behavior.
(Source) 
The graph depicts both the risk-seeking approach and the risk-averse approach toward investment. The behavior of a risk-averse individual is depicted by a concave outline, whereas the behavior of a risk-taker is depicted as a convex outline.
When risk-seeking and risk-averse behaviors are plotted on the graph, they form opposite curves. When both curves are formed on a single graph, they form a lens shape. Risk-averse investment behavior is depicted as a concave curve. Similarly, the risk-taking investment approach is depicted by a convex curve. The line dissecting the lens is known as the utility function; it depicts neutral behavior. Thus, if an individual’s gambling utility is less than the overall utility, they are considered a risk-taking person.
It refers to the mindset of an individual. Risk-seeking individuals are psychologically hard-wired to accept higher levels of risk to gain higher returns. Of course, there is no indication that the investment will certainly pay off. But, irrespective of the outcome, risk takers choose uncertainty over diminished returns.  
Most people are risk averse; they avoid losses and uncertainty, not just in investing but in major life decisions too. In contrast, high-risk appetite is witnessed in gambling, sports betting, and stock markets.
This article has been a guide to Risk-Seeking & its meaning. We explain it with a graph and an example and compare it with risk aversion. 
Risk budgeting is a type of portfolio allocation in which the risk of the portfolio is distributed among various asset classes with the objective of maximizing total portfolio returns while keeping the total portfolio risk at the minimum.
The most common approach to portfolio allocation is based on capital i.e., how much proportion of the capital should go in stocks or bonds or other such asset classes. For example, if I have $100 with me and invest $80 in stocks and $20 in bonds, we know our capital allocation to each asset class, but we have no idea of how much risk quantitatively we have assigned to stocks and how much to bonds. In risk budgeting, the investor has to first calculate what proportion of the overall portfolio risk each asset class represents and then reverse calculate the proportions of each asset class so as to minimize the total portfolio risk.

Risk budgeting primarily used three steps i.e., risk measurement, risk attribution, and risk allocation.

The portfolio returns can be easily calculated using the weighted average method considering 50:50 weights (Wx, Wy) of each asset class. Next, we calculate the standard deviation (which is a measure of risk or volatility) of each asset class (σx,σy) using the built-in formula. We also calculate the correlationCalculate The CorrelationCorrelation is a statistical measure between two variables that is defined as a change in one variable corresponding to a change in the other. It is calculated as (x(i)-mean(x))*(y(i)-mean(y)) / ((x(i)-mean(x))2 * (y(i)-mean(y))2.read more between the two asset classes (Corexy) using the built-in formula.
Therefore, the calculation of portfolio standard deviationPortfolio Standard DeviationPortfolio standard deviation refers to the portfolio volatility calculated based on three essential factors: the standard deviation of each of the assets present in the total portfolio, the respective weight of that individual asset, and the correlation between each pair of assets of the portfolio.read more (σp) using the below formula can be done as follows,
The objective of risk budgeting is to minimize the overall portfolio risk σp by varying the portfolio weights Wx and Wy.
The most obvious way to achieve this is by decreasing the proportion of riskiest assets. But this will affect the return of the portfolio because the riskiest asset often has the highest return.
To solve this issue, instead of minimizing portfolio standard deviation, we minimize a ratio called Sharpe RatioSharpe RatioSharpe Ratio, also known as Sharpe Measure, is a financial metric used to describe the investors’ excess return for the additional volatility experienced to hold a risky asset. You can calculate it by, 
Sharpe Ratio = {(Average Investment Rate of Return – Risk-Free Rate)/Standard Deviation of Investment Return}
read more, which is given by the following formula:
SR = (Rp – Rf) / σp, where Rp and Rf are overall portfolio return and risk-free return, respectively.
Sharpe ratio, in a crude way, signifies the return per unit risk of a portfolio. Hence we minimize the Sharpe Ratio of a portfolio (SR) by varying the proportion of various asset classes.
The following table gives the values for the different parameters of risk budgeting for the above example.
Therefore, the calculation of the Sharpe ratio using the above formula is as follows,
Unlike capital budgetingCapital BudgetingCapital budgeting is the planning process for the long-term investment that determines whether the projects are fruitful for the business and will provide the required returns in the future years or not. It is essential because capital expenditure requires a considerable amount of funds.read more in risk budgeting models, we can include the risk exposure of a portfolio to various external factors like inflation, economic growth, interest rates, and so on. To assign risk budgets to external factors, the investor must establish a relationship between each asset class and the external factors, and then after considering the volatility and correlation assumptions between these, an appropriate risk model can be built.
A portfolio’s risk can also be decomposed into active and passive components similar to the technique discussed above. The passive component is generally an appropriate benchmark, while the active component represents the risk due to the fund manager employed by the investor.
In the above figure, we can see that 95% of the portfolio’s risk is due to the behavior of the individual asset class, whereas 5% is due to that of the fund managers employed.
Risk Budgeting is one of the most recent methods of portfolio optimization and is to be used in conjunction with the more prevalent capital budgeting method. Risk Budgeting’s primary benefit is that it helps the investor to carefully balance his risk among the various asset classes, external factors, and the active fund manager’s role. But detailed analysis is needed for coming up with the correlation between the external factors and asset classes, which, if done improperly, may invalidate the entire optimization model.
This has been a guide to Risk Budgeting and its definition. Here we discuss the types of risk budgeting, its calculation with an example, advantages, and disadvantages. 
Income Stocks, also known as dividend stocks, are the equity stocks that provide consistent and regular income in the form of a dividend to its buyers. The most common features of such stocks are low volatility, regular dividend payout from the last 10 to 15 years, and regular increase in dividend payout and show a pattern of increasing profit growth. Although there may be a consistent increase in the dividend payout of such stocks there is a limited scope in terms of future growth of the capital invested.
Below are the main features to recognize income stock:
Low volatility means the price of the stock does not fluctuate dramatically over a short period. There may be small changes in the value over the period of time.
There is a consistent and steady payment of dividends over a period of years.
An important feature of companies with good financial strength is that they are not only making regular dividend payouts but also a percentage of dividends is increasing on a regular basis.
There is very low capital appreciation.

Income stocks are mostly generated in sectors like telecommunication, utilities, consumer staple, healthcare, petroleum, and energy.
Here are a few advantages of investing in these stock:
Here are a few disadvantages of investing in these Stocks.
Income stocks are the most common components of investor portfolios due to their various advantages. It helps to maintain a regular source of income for the investors looking for Passive IncomePassive IncomePassive income is the cash flow generated by an individual with minimum or no effort at regular intervals. It gives them additional financial security while requiring some amount of hard work initially, such as maintaining rental properties, making investments, upgrading products, etc.read more. These are less risky forms of investments as the companies are established enough to remain stable during the bear markets than the other stocks.
This has been a guide to Income Stock and its definition. Here we discuss strategies and how to recognize income stock along with advantages and disadvantages.
Bottom Fishing is the practice of buying an asset when it has seen a significant decline in its market value due to factors that have affected the overall market or the factors that have affected the specific asset, intending to profit from the asset overtime when other market participants realize the value in the asset during normal market conditions.
Asset prices are volatile and fluctuate wildly from time to time. This happens at both positive as well as negative ends. When the sentiment for an asset becomes extremely negative, led by any factor, asset prices decline to unsustainable levels. Investors see high value in them and rush to buy those assets. This buying by value investors is called bottom fishing.
It helps investors generate meaningful returns while containing the risks. Buying undervalued assets brings in a good margin of safety, making it a very successful strategy for investors.
Investors achieve one of their most important objectives, which is risk reduction. It is primarily focused on buying assets when they are lowly valued. Buying them when they are undervalued builds in the requisite margin of safety.
Excess returns are higher risk-adjusted returnsRisk-adjusted ReturnsRisk-adjusted return is a strategy for measuring and analyzing investment returns in which financial, market, credit, and operational risks are evaluated and adjusted so that an individual may decide whether the investment is worthwhile given all of the risks to the capital invested.read more. This is another important objective of bottom fishing. Buying low and selling high generate quick and outsized profits for investors.

Here are some generic examples of what bottom fishing is termed as:
As stated earlier in the article, not all such opportunities will be profitable investments for an investor. For example, the DVD rental company might never see its past glory as a structural shift that will move all its customers to online streaming apps, making the business model redundant and the company bankrupt.
It can be done using fundamental analysis and technical analysis.
Investors determine which asset is trading at a significant discount to its intrinsic value, which could be its earnings, book value, enterprise valueEnterprise ValueEnterprise value (EV) is the corporate valuation of a company, determined by using market capitalization and total debt.read more, or cash flows. Once the investors find such assets, they forecast their financial metrics for a couple of years and buy them if they are convinced of their prospects.
Investors can use fundamental screeners to filter stocks that fall within defined parameters and then research them one by one to find the best fit for their portfolios. Not all undervalued stocks end up being in the portfolio, and investors use their discretion to pick stocks that suit their risk profile and return objective.
Investors find assets that are beaten down and look weak on the technical charts. Analysts use technical indicators to filter assets in the oversold territory and pick them up to profit from those opportunities in the future. For example, stocks trading below their 200-day moving average (DMA) can be a criterion for an investor to filter the candidates for bottom fishing.
Investors can also use a mix of technical and fundamental analysis, called the techno-fundamental approach, to invest in beaten-down assets. In this technique, investors will generally screen their universe of investments using technical criteria and then screen the results using fundamental parameters to further shorten the list before picking their investment candidates. This technique is highly successful and effective as it can toss out some interesting opportunities which can be missed while using only technical or fundamental screeners.
Bottom Fishing can make investors quick and make big profits if done right. However, investors must be cognizant of the risks involved in such investing. Investors, at all times, should know what they are getting into because not only may such investments prove worthless, but there can also be no easy exit from such investments. Using screeners can be extremely helpful in filtering the candidates for bottom fishing for beginners. Seasoned investors, however, may have spent considerable time investing for them to identify stocks without screeners.
This has been a guide to what bottom fishing is and its meaning. Here we discuss the objectives and techniques of bottom fishing along with examples. 
Greenfield investments are a type of foreign direct investment where a company starts its operation in the other countries as its subsidiary and invests in the construction of offices, plants, sites, building products, etc., thereby managing its operations and achieving the highest level of the controls over its activities.
Suppose there is a company ABC Inc. which is having its headquarters in the US. The company conducts research to know the demand for its product in the country of India. After conducting the research in the Indian market, it is found that there is a huge demand for the product of the company in India, and it can get a good customer base over there. So, the management of the company decided to expand its business by creating its subsidiary company in India and starts the operations there from the ground level by constructing new production facilities, distribution hubs, and the offices.
This investment by the company ABC Inc. in the other country by creating a subsidiary over there will be considered as the greenfield investment as the company starts its operations there from the ground level by constructing new production facilities, distribution hubs, and the offices. Also, the company will be managing all the operations using its own staff and not just investing its money, unlike in case the other type of foreign direct investmentType Of Foreign Direct InvestmentA foreign direct investment (FDI) is made by an individual or an organization, into a business located in a foreign country. The host nation receives job creation prospects, advanced technology, a higher standard of living, infrastructural development, and overall economic growth.read more where the day to day operations are being managed is not managed by the investing company. So, this is the example of the Greenfield Investment.

Greenfield investments are nothing but one of the types of foreign direct investment in case of which a company starts its operation in other countries from the ground level. Requirements for intermediary under a greenfield investment are removed completely, resulting in a high amount of control over the whole project as well as independence, which is beneficial for the company who is investing its money in other countries, but at the same time, greenfield investment requires a huge amount of capital expenditure which requires a huge amount of borrowings and loans and therefore the interest burden is very high.
Also, it involves venturing a project outside the country of incorporation; planning, direction, and coordinating becomes very difficult. Hence overall management may not be handled effectively. So, the decision for the investment should be taken after proper analysis of the market and considering the various risk and opportunities available.
This has been a guide to what is Greenfield Investment and its definition. Here we discuss the example of greenfield investment along with its advantages and disadvantages. 

Active investing is an investment strategy wherein frequent buying and selling of securities takes place to earn short-term profits. Its sole purpose is to outperform a benchmark index. So, active investing strategies are followed when the returns required must be greater than the returns of an index fund.

Active Investing is a high-risk and high-return strategy though passive investingPassive InvestingPassive investing is a strategy used by investors to maximize their returns by avoiding frequent portfolio churning by buying and selling securities and instead buying and holding a diverse range of securities.read more is a low-risk and reasonable-return strategy. Unlike active investing, passive investing is a “buy and holdBuy And HoldThe term "buy and hold" refers to an investor's investment strategy in which they hold securities for a long period of time, ignoring the ups and downs in market price during a short period of time.read more” investment strategy which aims at making long-term profits. Moreover, passive investing focuses on matching the returns with the index rather than outperforming it.
Active investing requires constant monitoring of market conditions before making the buy and sell decisions. This implies that the investment manager or the investor needs to watch the movement of security prices throughout the day.
Active investors follow the given strategies:
Active investing is highly volatile (or risky) as the stock market changes with every small or big change in the economyEconomyAn economy comprises individuals, commercial entities, and the government involved in the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of products and services in a society.read more. This is the reason this type of investing is not recommended when constant returns are required over a longer period. For instance, active investing is not suitable for arranging funds for retirement. Instead, a savings plan or fixed deposit would be a better option for such a purpose.
In May 2022, Morningstar Direct, an investment analysis firm, claimed that the holdings of passive retail investors have exceeded those of active investors. Precisely, as of March 31, 2022, passive investors hold $8.53 trillion in mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more, while active investors hold $8.34 trillion in active investments. The reasons active investments could not outperform passive investments are stated as follows:
Despite the good performance of passive investing over active investing, one cannot guarantee success, especially in the current times of the pandemic (Covid-19).
The differences between active and passive investing are as follows:
Passive investing is preferred over active investing due to the following reasons:– The trading volume is lower in passive investing. Consequently, the expenses incurred on trades are also low.– The charges and the fees of the fund manager are almost absent. This is because passive investing need not necessarily require the expertise of fund managers.– The passive investor need not spend efforts on monitoring stock prices consistently. Short-term price fluctuations are not captured since the goal is to make profits in the long run.– The risk of investing in passive funds is lower. One can earn reasonable returns by bearing lower risks than active investing.
Active investing is preferred over passive investing for the following reasons:– It can bring in higher returns though they come with high risks and high costs.– This type of investing is flexible and gives good opportunities to chase high returns in the stock market.– The active investing fund managers can diversify their mix of assets and focus on the most promising investment. Skilled managers can make a lot of money with AI.
Active investing can beat the market index at times but not always. Therefore, even if it is performing well in the current scenario, there is no guarantee that it will keep beating the index in the future as well. Moreover, active investing need not work well in all kinds of markets (like a developing economy) and all phases of an economy (like a recession).For this reason, most of the times, the investment experts suggest following a blend of active and passive investing strategies. One must invest based on the risk tolerance, goal of investment, availability of dedicated funds, age of the investor, etc.
This article has been a guide to Active Investing. Here, we explain the strategies of active investing along with examples and its differences from passive investing. 
Managed account refers to a customized investment account managed by a professional investment manager on behalf of an investor. The manager creates a portfolio of investments keeping in mind an investor’s financial needs and goals.
Managed funds that pool money from different investors hardly allow for any customization. In managed accounts, an investor owns all the assets in the account and is transparently informed about their performance. The investor also holds the right to make investment decisions.

The terms and services offered under different types differ according to firms. We have provided a basic understanding of the types, with the major ones listed below.

A managed account involves a professional investment manager who holds discretionary rights to take investment decision on behalf of an investor. The decisions are attained keeping in mind the investor’s financial goals. The service is more attainable by HNWIs. With a brokerage accountBrokerage AccountA brokerage account is a taxable investment account in a brokerage company where a person deposits its assets and instructs the company to trade in shares or bonds on their behalf. In addition, the company deducts some brokerage or commission.read more, the investor controls the buying and selling of investments.
Yes, they indeed are if you don’t have the time and expertise to oversee your investments. Managed accounts allow a diverse investment portfolio, transparency and hassle-free investment by a professional on your behalf to achieve your financial goals efficiently.
As an investor, SMAs offer you a separate account or model portfolio of securities according to your needs while you enjoy the benefits of investing in a mutual fund. Here you own the securities in your separate account, unlike in mutual funds where you hold units in the fund.Since you have direct share ownership of securities, you enjoy greater transparency and tax efficiency.
This has been a guide to What is Managed Account and its Definition. Here we discuss how it works along with types, examples and how to start? 

Named Beneficiary is a person whose name is recorded on the legal documentation by the force of law or a decree. This person is the sole or shared collector of benefits from the trust, insurance policy, pension plan, annuity etc. If there is more than one named beneficiary, all will share the asset equally or as per their defined share in the legal document or will.
Sometimes an estate can be a beneficiary instead of an individual. There is a difference between heir and beneficiary; the heir gets the asset as a successor while the beneficiary gets his or her share if their name is on the will.
In the case of a financial instrumentFinancial InstrumentFinancial instruments are certain contracts or documents that act as financial assets such as debentures and bonds, receivables, cash deposits, bank balances, swaps, cap, futures, shares, bills of exchange, forwards, FRA or forward rate agreement, etc. to one organization and as a liability to another organization and are solely taken into use for trading purposes.read more like an annuity, the beneficiary and the policyholder can be the same individual. Appointing a beneficiary comes with certain advantages like tax advantages and skipping probate processes, which ultimately leads to speeding up of the asset distribution process.

The primary beneficiary is the individual who is foremost in the list of receiving the benefit, as mentioned in the will of the deceased person. The deceased person specifically mentions the primary beneficiary’s name in the will in his or her lifetime.
The contingent Beneficiary is the person who receives the asset in case the primary beneficiary is not found or refuses to take the asset as allotted by the deceased in his or her will. There are certain conditions outlined in the will that need to be met before the asset can be transferred to the contingent beneficiary. A contingent beneficiary is also called a secondary beneficiary.
Sometimes the owner can mention estate like some non-profit organization or NGOs as the primary beneficiary in the will instead of an individual.
Refer below the snapshot of the beneficiary designation form for the life insurance policy. By reading the first paragraph, we can easily comprehend that a person can appoint more than one primary as well as a contingent beneficiary. Though, no primary beneficiary can be the contingent beneficiary as well. Also, in case an estate like a charity organization or trust is mentioned as the beneficiary, full details regarding the address and the date of its creation should be mentioned. Lastly, in case the owner is married and the spouse is not mentioned as the sole primary beneficiary, spousal consent is required.
Source: www.yumpu.com
There are several risks that should be kept in mind by the owner or should be detailed to the owner by a legal advisor when she or he makes the will and designate a primary and contingent beneficiary. Some of the risks are mentioned as below:
The above are just a few examples. To sum up, asset owners should very carefully, with the help of their legal adviser, fill the named beneficiary form, to avoid any hassle in the distribution of assets after their death. Also, they should review and update the beneficiary’s names after every major life event like divorce, marriage, or death of a primary or contingent beneficiaryContingent BeneficiaryA contingent beneficiary for any financial account is the person who has been designated as a secondary beneficiary.read more before the owner.
Naming a beneficiary in a will is very important. Naming a primary or contingent beneficiary ensures that the asset goes in the right hands after the owner’s death. Designating beneficiaries helps in getting tax advantage after the owner’s death. It helps the family and legal heir of the owner in skipping the probate process (sale and distribution of assets) altogether. It is a very lengthy and expensive process that can cost the family a lot after the owner’s death.
In cases where primary beneficiaries are specifically mentioned in the will, they will be able to get the tax advantages after the owner’s death. For example, let us say the owner’s assets were all becoming taxable in two-year time, but after death, the primary beneficiary can collect the asset with a deferred taxDeferred TaxDeferred Tax is the effect that occurs in a firm as a result of timing differences between the date when taxes are actually paid to tax authorities by the company and the date when such tax is accrued. Simply put, it is the difference in taxes that arises when taxes due in one of the accounting period are either not paid or overpaid.read more benefit for a longer period.
If the beneficiary’s name is not specifically mentioned in the will, the court will decide who will get the asset in given facts and scenarios. It sometimes leads to assets going to the wrong hands. Therefore, to ensure that the right individual gets the benefit after the owner’s death, beneficiaries (both primary and contingent) should be mentioned in the will.
The probate process is a time-consuming and expensive process that family and heir have to go through after the asset owner’s death. The designation of the asset to primary and contingent beneficiaries can help to skip this process altogether.
This has been a guide to Named Beneficiary & its Definition. Here we discuss the types of named beneficiary, risks, and importance along with examples and advantages. 
Index investing is a hands-off investment approach used by investors with long-term goals. Index investing encompasses investing in a portfolio of assets that mimic a particular index or financial market. It allows investors to own portions of stocks in many companies, all through one fund. Index fundsIndex FundsIndex Funds are passive funds that pool investments into selected securities.read more have proven to be superior in generating earnings over longer periods.

They are also less expensive than their actively managed counterparts. It also offers scope for wider diversification. Index investing does not require the active management of stocks and is, therefore, passive investingPassive InvestingPassive investing is a strategy used by investors to maximize their returns by avoiding frequent portfolio churning by buying and selling securities and instead buying and holding a diverse range of securities.read more is more viable through this form of investing as investors do not have to spend their time and efforts on a regular basis to track the performances.
Index investing strategy is the trading technique of using index funds to build a portfolio. It’s a passive investment strategy that helps investors build wealth with less expenseExpenseAn expense is a cost incurred in completing any transaction by an organization, leading to either revenue generation creation of the asset, change in liability, or raising capital.read more. Index funds can be mutual funds Mutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more or exchange-traded fundsExchange-traded FundsAn exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a security that contains many types of securities such as bonds, stocks, commodities, and so on, and that trades on the exchange like a stock, with the price fluctuating many times throughout the day when the exchange-traded fund is bought and sold on the exchange.read more (ETFs). They are built by financial firms to mimic a specific financial index. The fund one buys will hold the shares of stocks from companies in that particular index.
While there are financial indexes all over the world, here are a few popular that anyone can easily find index funds for:
Most index funds hold shares of all of the stocks in the index they’re mimicking. However, some funds have only a sampling of the securities in their index.
This type of investing is often used in retirement savings strategies. Over many years, index investing has been proven to match general stock market performance. This makes index investing a buy-and-hold strategy.
Investing in index funds is incredibly easy. Moreover, an investor can choose to invest in either active or passive index investing depending on their convenience, knowledge, and time allocation.An investor can invest in index funds in two ways: through index mutual funds or ETFs.
The primary differences are:
Mutual funds – A company pools together investors’ money to purchase assets with a mutual fund. Mutual funds are bought directly from the fund and not publicly traded on the stock market. Every investor has part ownership of the fund in the share.
Mutual funds require active fund managementFund ManagementFund management is the process of a company taking a person's, company's, or another fund management company's financial assets (generally high net worth individuals) and investing them in companies that use those funds as an operational investment, financial investment, or any other investment in order to grow the fund.read more, which means the fund’s creators are looking to beat the market. Actively managed funds have higher fees than their passive counterparts. Mutual funds offer immense diversification, liquidityLiquidityLiquidity is the ease of converting assets or securities into cash.read more, and cost-effectiveness.
Exchange-traded funds– An exchange-traded fund is a bundle of assets that one can publicly trade in the stock market. ETFs are generally lower cost and more straightforward to access than mutual funds. They require passive management only and offer better liquidity than mutual funds. They are also comparatively cheaper.
A person can create both ETFs and Mutual Funds to copy a financial index. Once a person decides to invest, they can research indexes to choose the one most appealing to them.
To invest in an index fund, one can open up a brokerage accountBrokerage AccountA brokerage account is a taxable investment account in a brokerage company where a person deposits its assets and instructs the company to trade in shares or bonds on their behalf. In addition, the company deducts some brokerage or commission.read more. Or, for mutual funds, one may be able to create an account directly through the company with the fund they are interested in.
Before investing in any instrument or security, it is important to understand the applications. Below is a checklist that would help the investor choose the right ETF or mutual fund to commence their index investing strategy.
Let us understand the concept of passive index investing in depth with the help of a couple of examples.
Rachel works at a successful IT company as a team head. Her schedule is naturally jam-packed. Therefore, to ensure her hard-earned salary is put to better use, she decided to invest in S&P 500 passive index investing.
In the long-run her money multiples as the economy grows. Moreover, she did not have to spend extra time on choosing the right stocks or even checking the overall balance in her portfolio. The index’s growth helped her multiply her money in exchange for a minimal fee.
The S&P 500 is a stock market indexMarket IndexA market index tracks the performance of a diverse selection of securities that make up a significant part of the financial market. It serves as an indicator of the overall financial market condition by listing the historical and real-time trends in different market segments.
read more that holds the top 500 companies in the U.S. It calculates the companies market capitalizationMarket CapitalizationMarket capitalization is the market value of a company’s outstanding shares. It is computed as the product of the total number of outstanding shares and the price of each share.read more in its index and gives a snapshot of the United States’ financial health. 
The S&P 500 is a list of companies, not a company that you directly invest in. However, one can invest in an index fund that holds all of the companies’ shares in this index. These funds are meant to match the S&P 500’s gains.
According to SPIVA, the S&P 500 has outperformed over 77% of other large-cap funds over the past five years. Since it began, the S&P 500 has returned an average of about 10% annually. 
There are multiple S&P 500 index funds. A person can choose one based on past performance, fees, and minimum investment amounts required.
Let us understand the benefits of passive index investing through the explanation below.
While the advantages to index investing strategy are multiple, there are a handful of factors that prove to be a disadvantage for investors. Let us discuss them through the points below.
Index investing aims to generate returns by copying the performance of a benchmark index instead of beating the market. It is a passive investment strategy that brings steady returns at lower risks. Index funds do not demand constant management and require fewer trading costs. It also enables diversification of assets and better liquidity.
Passive index investing is the method of gaining higher returns with minimized trading. It is a long-term wealth-building strategy in which investors buy and sell index funds whose holdings mirror a particular benchmark.
There are many advantages to choosing index investing. It enables better diversification, more liquidity, and great affordability. They can bring steady and solid returns over time with minimal risks. It is considered one of the smartest investment strategies for beginners in trading.
This has been a guide to what is Index Investing. We explain its examples, benefits, limitations, methods, and provided a checklist to consider for investing. 
A profit-sharing plan is a defined contribution pension plan in which the workers and employees are allowed to obtain their share in the overall profit of the organization in such a way that they are encouraged to contribute more and more to the profit of the organization and motivates to give their best efforts; thus it is an incentive plan that gives a variable benefit to the employees based on a certain percentage of profit.
This type of plan gives a win-win situation for both the employees and the employer. It encourages the employees to give their best efforts in the organization, which in turn would generate more profits and increase the wealth of the organization. Thus both the parties benefited from increased earnings.
This plan specifies a certain percentage of profits for every particular employee covered under the plan. Thus, the company must decide how much profit will be shared with employees covered under a profit-sharing plan. Also, it is important to note that only employers, companies, or organizations can contribute to this plan, not the employees.
This plan provided quarterly or annual incentives to the employees of the organization based upon the quarterly and annual returnsAnnual ReturnsThe annual return is the income generated on an investment during a year as a percentage of the capital invested and is calculated using the geometric average. This return provides details about the compounded return earned yearly and compares the returns supplied by various investments like stocks, bonds, derivatives, mutual funds, etc.read more, respectively. Further, employees can get their share in the organization’s profit either in the form of cash or the company’s stock, wherein the contribution is provided to a qualified tax-deferred retirement account that allows a penalty-free distribution to the employees at a certain Pre defined age group.
Further, there are also schemes where the employee decides to leave the organization and join another one; then, in that case, the existing contribution is rolled over to another employer’s plan subject to a certain percentage of penalty on the existing contribution.

The employees covered under this plan are given cash or stock of the organization or company at the end of every year or quarter, as the case may be. Thus they are given instant results of their efforts in the organization. The main disadvantage of this type of plan is that the employees are taxed on this additional income as a regular income.
The profit-sharing is directed into a specific fund known as the trust fund, which provides the rewards to the employees at a later date, often on the employees’ retirement. Accordingly, immediate taxation on the employees’ incomes is avoided under a deferred plan. Further, the qualified investment plan provides employees with various investment choices. Also, the retirement pay increases as and when the contribution increases.
As the name suggests, this plan is a combination of both the plans mentioned above, which pays a part of the contribution in cash periodically, and part of the contribution is deferred into a trust fund to be paid at the time of retirement.
Suppose a company, ABC corporation, earns an annual profit of $500,000. This company employs three employees, X, Y, and Z. Now, all the employees earn an income of $400,000, $200,000, and $400,000, respectively. The company has a policy of a 10%profit sharing plan.
Solution:
Hence the profit of $50,000 ( being 10% of 500,000 ) is shared among the employees as under:
A profit-sharing plan is a way to best the interest of the organization’s employees. The simple rule of this plan is that the more the company earns profit, the more the organization’s employees earn as a reward. Thus there is a direct relationship between the efforts the employees put into the organization and the profit-sharing incentives they receive. Thus this plan helps to achieve a win-win situation in the organization for the employees and the company.
A very important difference between a 401(k) plan and a profit-sharing plan lies in those who contribute to the employee’s plan. Under the former plan, the employee itself contributes to the plan for the investment in the retirement plan, while in the latter, the retirement payments only compromise the contribution from the employer in contrast to the former.
As discussed above, a profit-sharing plan is increasingly considered in today’s world since it provides a win-win situation for the entire company. Thus this plan helps an organization to grow and achieve heights.
This has been a guide to the Profit Sharing Plan and its definition. Here we discuss three types of Profit-Sharing plans (Cash, Deferred, and Combination) along with their example and rules. 
Investment decision refers to financial resource allocation. Investors opt for the most suitable assets or investment opportunities based on risk profiles, investment objectives, and return expectations.
Firms have limited financial resources; therefore, the top-level management undertakes capital budgeting and fund allocation into long-term assets. Managers overseeing business operations opt for short-term investments to ensure liquidity and working capital. Investment decisions are also influenced by the frequency of returns, associated risks, maturity periods, tax benefits, volatility, and inflation rates.
Investment decisions are made to reap maximum returns by allocating the right financial resource to the right opportunity. These decisions are taken considering two important financial management parameters—risks and returns.

Investors and managers dedicate a lot of time to investment planning—these decisions involve massive funds and can be irreversible—impact on the investors and business is long-term.
Also, individuals and corporate investors have to decide between various options—assets, securities, bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more, debentures, gold, real estate, etc. For businesses, investments could be in the form of new ventures, projects, mergersMergersMerger refers to a strategic process whereby two or more companies mutually form a new single legal venture. For example, in 2015, ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co and Kraft Foods Group Inc merged their business to become Kraft Heinz Company, a leading global food and beverage firm.read more, or acquisitionsAcquisitionsAcquisition refers to the strategic move of one company buying another company by acquiring major stakes of the firm. Usually, companies acquire an existing business to share its customer base, operations and market presence. It is one of the popular ways of business expansion.read more as well.
Investment decisions are further classified into short-term and long-term. For example, the final decision may involve a capital expenditureCapital ExpenditureCapex or Capital Expenditure is the expense of the company's total purchases of assets during a given period determined by adding the net increase in factory, property, equipment, and depreciation expense during a fiscal year.read more on assets that pay off in the long run or an investment in inventory that converts into sales within a short period. A company might attempt expansion by taking up new projects; a business might increase the capacity of an existing facility. Capital investment is required for replacing an obsolete asset as well. In business, decision-making is everywhere.
Investing in an asset, security, or project requires a lot of patience; ideally, the decision-making process should be analytical. Following is a five-step process decision-making process that guides investors:
An investment is a planned decision, and some of the factors that are responsible for these decisions are as follows:
Let us assume that Quinn possesses $12000 in her savings account. She decides to invest, but her priority is low risk and high liquidityLiquidityLiquidity is the ease of converting assets or securities into cash.read more. Her portfolio manager suggests XYZ mutual funds. This mutual fund allocates 75% of her money into debentures & bonds and 25% into stocks. Also, she can withdraw funds at any time.
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec (CDPQ) and DP World plan co-invested $5 billion into three prominent UAE assets: • Jebel Ali Port (JAP) established a trade corridor between the east and the west,• Jebel Ali Free Zone (JAFZ) is the world’s largest free zone located in the middle east,• National Industries Park (NIP) spread its manufacturing and processing companies across 21sq. Km of area.
As a consequence of the investment, CDPQ gained an expansive exposure—a logistics chain comprising 8700 global companies—3.5 billion-plus consumers worldwide. In 2021, these assets yielded an overall revenue of $1.9 billion.
In financial management a five-step investment process is followed:1. Analyze the current financial condition.2. Set up an investment objective and ascertain the risk profile.3. Plan and devise asset allocation.4. Select the appropriate investment opportunity.5. Monitor investment and perform due diligence.
Given below are the various factors that influence decisions:1. Investment objective2. Return on investment3. Return frequency4. Involved risks5. Maturity period6. Tax benefit7. Volatility8. Liquidity9. Inflation rate
Investment decisions are classified into:1. Strategic investment2. Capital expenditure3. Inventory investment4. Modernization investment5. Replacement investment6. Expansion investment7. New venture investment
In organizations, investment decisions are crucial for growth and profitability—impact cash flows—have a long-term impact as many of these decisions are irreversible. Even with limited funds, individuals can obtain impressive returns if the investment is well-planned. Managers must calculate the risks associated beforehand; this way, they can avoid losses.
This has been a guide to what is an investment decision and its meaning. We discuss the factors affecting final investment decisions, the financial management process, & examples.  
Lump-sum refers to a large amount of money and lump-sum payment is a significant amount of money someone pays in a single payment, unlike making a series of payments over time or in regular intervals. It has advantages and disadvantages and the benefits vary according to different situations.
In a loan or mortgage, paying a large amount of money as a one-time settlement within a few months can save a lot of interest. On the other hand, an individual who has been settled with a lump sum amount will have the freedom to invest when the prices are right.

The lump-sum payment provides a sum of money in one single transaction. One-time payment simplifies the payment process. It gives the receiver the freedom to plan and take necessary actions to achieve their goals. A large number of payments have their advantages in various fields. For example, lump-sum contract payment in case of house purchases can save a significant amount in cost growth of projects. They can also reduce the price rise in materials purchased for the construction. Moreover, paying a mortgage as early as possible in a single settlement saves money through interest. This is because the entire amount is paid upfront; a single payment is usually less expensive than paying in installments.
However, receiving large sums of money as a one-time settlement has disadvantages too. For example, investors who invest large sums of money in a highly volatile asset may lose their savings. At the same time, investors who invest monthly in SIPs (Systematic investment plans) can save themselves from market volatilities. Similarly, a pensioner who receives a pension in a one-time settlement may spend it sooner and have little money remaining with them. Lump-sum tax payment is another scenario where paying a large amount of money can negatively impact. On the other hand, paying taxes regularly without default can save the individual from burning a hole in their pocket.
Danny invests $50000 in the stock market for the long term. The amount will be kept for fifteen years with an interest rate of 11%.
It is noteworthy that investments work on the compounding effect. Whether the returns are lump-sum, the invested amount gathers higher interest when kept for longer periods (compounding effect). Here the invested amount is $500000 at a rate of 11% for fifteen years, which will give an estimated return of $18, 92,295 and the total value of the investment that Danny will get at the end of the investment are $23, 92,295. Had he opted for a monthly payment of $239.2495, he would have smaller amounts of the money. For example, if the investment returns were in the form of monthly payments, the rate would have been $199357 every month for a year (if opted for). This is a simple process and easy to calculate. However, there is an online lump-sum payment calculator through which individuals can find answers.
An individual born after January 2nd, 1936, can select tax methods on the distribution if they receive a lump-sum payment from a qualified retirement plan or annuity.
A lump-sum distribution here is the distribution or payment within one tax year of a participant’s plan’s entire balance from all of the employer’s qualified plans of one kind. This could be a pension, profit-sharing, or bonus plan in stocks. Moreover, it is an amount that one pays in the following circumstances:
Taxes differ from place to place along with the rates, and given below are a few pointers for the same.
Most taxable distributions received directly from an employer retirement plan in a lump sum are subject to a mandatory income tax withholding of 20%. Even if they expect to roll over the taxable amount within 60 days, 
Another case to consider is the Net Appreciation (unrealized). For example, suppose the lump-sum payment includes employer securities, and the payer reported an amount for net unrealized appreciation (NUA) in employer securities (such as Distributions from Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, and Other Investments). In that case, the NUA is generally is not taxed until individuals sell the securities. But, individuals can choose to include the NUA in their income in the year of stake distribution.
Beginners who are yet to get accustomed to the market highs and lows can opt for SIP. Regular payments can reduce the risk of market volatility. On the other hand, a seasoned investor can invest huge amounts in taking advantage of the low prices of the stock.
Pension income is calculated on factors based on age, mortality, and the Internal Revenue Service’s minimum present value segment rates to determine the current value of the pension income. Higher interest rates can imply a smaller amount. One can use a lump sum payment calculator to arrive at the value.
The net unrealized appreciation (NUA) is generally not subject to lump-sum payment tax until individuals sell the securities. If the distribution includes employer securities and the payer reported an amount for NUA in employer securities in Form 1099-R, which provides for pension, annuities, etc.
This has been a guide to what is a lump-sum payment and its meaning. We discuss how is lump-sum payment is calculated with examples, taxes and its advantages. 
International funds are equity funds owned and managed by people from outside the country who want to invest in securities other than their home country. This could be another way for the trader to access international markets and thereby widen their investment profile while retaining the services of local professionals.

Global investments carry the potential to generate capital appreciation. Investors who want real exposure to the international stock market must invest in international funds and indexes. Investors who want to participate in foreign markets but lack the money to do so can consider international equity funds a great investment choice.

International funds are equity funds owned and managed by traders for investors outside the country who want to invest there. These experts provide opinions on the stocks invested in the international markets. Investments in international markets are popular due to their earning potential. However, the returns, like in other markets, depending on investors’ risk-taking capacity.
International funds can be generally classified into the following types:
Although global and international funds can be easily mistaken for each other, they are not the the same. Global funds invest in financial instruments worldwide, including in their home country. On the other hand, international funds invest in financial instruments worldwide, excluding the investor’s home country. 
They are investments made in companies from particular geographical locations across the world.
These funds only invest in financial instruments belonging to one specific foreign country. While this may require extensive research, investing in a good economy will give the investor good returns. 
These funds are utilized to promote a particular sector. Therefore, these are funds invested in companies that belong to a particular sector worldwide.
Jack is a resident of the United States, and he wishes to invest in “bright light” industries that focus on developing gadgets that can make mundane daily life easier. The issue is that the company was based in the U.K. However, he decides to invest in it, though doubtfully. He had bought 100 shares worth 10 Euros each. The dollar value at that time was $70 per euro. His total investment is 100*10*70, which will be $70,000. After a year, the euro rises to 80 on the dollar ($80 = 1 euro). Now the return Jack will receive is $80,000. He made a $10000 profit on his investment. This is an example of the benefits of investing internationally.
Jill made a similar investment in a company based in Spain from the United States. With the recent Russia-Ukraine war (2022), there has been a change in the geopolitical atmosphere of countries across the world. Unfortunately, the company in which she had invested was badly affected due to the war. There were losses in the company, and the share prices fell along with negative sentiments prevailing in the market. So, naturally, her investment resulted in losses. This is one of the negative impacts of investing in other countries.
The following are the advantages of an international fund investment.
If investors invest only in their home country’s stocks, the overall performance of their home country’s economy will have a huge impact on the investments. Suppose there is another country where the economy is growing. Investors will benefit from that growth. This way, the negative and positive factors balance the portfolio, preventing it from showing high losses.
Some markets would have already hit the point of high growth, while some might be waiting to take off. Therefore, thorough research should be done to identify stocks or international index funds in countries with the potential to outgrow the investment with high returns. This creates a cost-effective investment portfolio. 
One advantage of these funds is access to various companies outside an investor’s home country. For various reasons, some countries may have companies researching and developing advanced technologies that may not be available in their home country. This route helps in not missing early investment opportunities. In addition, they are accessible with the help of experienced fund managers, which is an added advantage.
There are many new prospects available through international investing. For instance, one can buy a stock if they agree with an international innovator’s vision and have exposure to a company’s stock. An international fund index is an option here too. Those who are looking for unique investments can use geographic diversity to invest in a variety of markets. These markets should be the ones they think will generate more future value than just what is offered in the domestic country.
Investors should consider these factors before investing.
Depending on the country, stocks and bonds have varying risk and return profiles. Spreading funds throughout many businesses reduces the likelihood of losing money overall if one investment fails. Moreover, currency risk is an inevitable part of these investments. Let’s say a person based in the U.S. invests in the U.K., and the dollar falls against the euro, then the Net Asset Value (NAV) increases. This happens due to more dollars for each euro (profit) and vice versa if the dollar rises and NAV falls. Conversely, investors’ international stock performance can suffer if the U.S. dollar appreciates against other currencies.
Creating a brokerage account that allows direct access to foreign markets can be expensive. Sometimes, the domestic currency may be of a lesser value and can seem high compared to the units of foreign currency.
Progressive government leadership, tax incentives, or even access to natural resources and policies can permit industry to flourish more rapidly in outside markets than in domestic markets. However, the geopolitical changes in the country influence investor decisions and hence the performance of the market. Any investments, therefore, shall be made only after watching the current situation prevailing in the country.
World events have different impacts on different countries. For example, when one country’s economy does not perform well, another economy might have good growth rates, giving the investor a chance to diversify the portfolio. This, in turn, helps save high losses in the portfolio. 
Tax benefits may exist for investors according to the local laws of each country and the type of treatment these investments receive. For instance, the nation where the stock was issued would probably withhold a portion of the income gained for local taxes; some levy a capital gains tax (as in the United States). In addition, there may be charges reimbursed for any foreign taxes paid on filing income taxes as a foreign tax credit or deduction.
Market opinions regarding the best international funds may be irrelevant individually and can differ depending on how much they are willing to take. Individuals shall therefore conduct thorough research according to one’s preferences before coming up with the list of best international mutual funds that can guarantee them good returns.
They are financial instruments used to invest in equity in the international markets and are generally owned and managed by experts in the field. The professionals suggest investments to investors from other countries who want to invest in their country.
The foremost advantage of investing outside the home country is diversification. Investing in different countries helps mitigate the risks of relying on one country’s economy. In addition, diversification provides an opportunity to compensate for the loss incurred in one country with another.
The answer depends on the investor. If they have extra cash to invest after saving for an emergency and other low-risk investments, they can go ahead with risky investments. Then again, these are suggested by experts and therefore have the potential to give great returns.
The procedure to be followed regarding the international fund transfer, if permitted by countries, can be found on the respective government websites. The same can be referred to for executing these transfers.
This article has been a guide to International Fund & its definition. Here, we explain its types, factors, advantages, and an example. 
An endowment fund is a kind of investment fund that a non-profit organization holds, and amounts are frequently withdrawn from the fund to meet general and specific needs. The fund consists of the number of investments made and income earned on such investments.

One may consider the real-life example of Harvard, the University of Texas, Princeton, and Stanford, which held endowment funds of more than $25 million in 2017. The fund was being criticized since, although such huge amounts were lying in the funds, the tuition fees were increasing.

It contains policies for investments that can be made by a manager and his expected approach to making such investments.
This part contains details on the amount allowed to be withdrawn from the fund and the time interval at which such withdrawals can be made.
It provides guidelines for the fund’s use and aims to ensure that no deviation is made for such purposes.
In such funds, limitations are placed by the donor for the usage of the proceeds of the donation for a specific purpose. Thus, the funds for such donation can be utilized for the purpose specified by the donor only.
In these funds, there exists no limitation or restriction for usage of the fund. As a result, the organization is free to utilize the proceeds per its policies to meet its objectives.
Such funds face restrictions, not from the donors but from the governing head of the organization, and are intended to generate income for a long time. There exist restrictions regarding the utilization of principal and income portions of the fund, and the same can be accessed only as per the instructions of the governing body.
These funds contain a condition that the principal amount or part of it can be used only after the expiry of a certain time or the happening of a certain event, as decided by the donor. After the time limitation imposed by the donor is over, the organization is free to utilize the fund amounts at its discretion.
Non-profit organizations hold these, and there may be different policies concerning each such fund. However, each such fund contributes to the organization’s growth for which they are created.
This has been a guide to What an endowment fund is & its Meaning. Here we discuss the endowment fund example, features, and how it works, along with components, types, advantages, and disadvantages. 
Portfolio turnover is the rate at which the portfolio managers of a fund purchase and sell financial securities over a given period, usually a year. Investors must consider this key metric as the higher the turnover ratio, the more the associated fees, reflecting the turnover costs.

Typically, a fund with a high turnover rate implies that investors must pay high capital gains taxes. That said, a high ratio is justified when the portfolio manager can generate higher risk-adjusted returns compared to the same funds with a low turnover rate. This ratio offers individuals an insight into how portfolio managers manage the investment corpus.

Portfolio turnover meaning refers to the percentage change of a fund’s assets, usually for twelve months. The turnover rate impacts the returns generated by a mutual fund or a similar investment option. Therefore, investors must check this key metric before allocating their money to any fund.
A high turnover rate signifies that fund managers frequently change the portfolio’s assets using a fast-paced or active investment strategy. As a result, they incur high transaction costs, which are charged to a fund. This, in turn, can impact the fund’s returns. On the other hand, a low turnover rate (less than 30%) indicates that the fund manager is using a buy-and-hold strategy to generate returns.
Funds with a high turnover rate are actively-managed funds. In contrast, funds with a low turnover rate are passively-managed funds. A turnover rate of 100% or more indicates that the fund manager sold or replaced every financial instrument with another security over a year.
Investors must remember to compare this ratio of mutual funds falling under the same fund category. For example, one can compare the ratios of two large-cap funds. However, they cannot compare the turnover rate of a small-cap fund against that of a balanced fund.
The following points can give an idea of the turnover rate’s  importance:
Lastly, investors can track this ratio of any mutual fund to determine the strategy the fund manager uses. For instance, a surge in the turnover rate from 20% to 70% would indicate that the portfolio manager is using a completely different investment strategy.
Individuals can use the following formula to calculate portfolio turnover:
Portfolio Turnover Rate = (Minimum of Financial Instruments Purchased or Sold ÷ Average Net Assets) x 100
Where:
Let us look at this portfolio turnover calculation example to understand this concept better.
Suppose SilverRock Fund bought and sold financial instruments worth $15 million and $18 million, respectively. Over twelve months, the mutual fund held $36 million of average net assets. Individuals can calculate the portfolio turnover of this fund using the above formula.
Portfolio Turnover = ($15 million / $36 million) x 100 i.e., 41.67%
Individuals new to the investment world often fail to understand crucial concepts like portfolio turnover and holding period. Yet, knowing their meanings is essential to make the right investment decisions and fulfilling the set financial goals. So, let us look at the distinct features of portfolio turnover and holding period.
Usually, a higher turnover rate indicates increased expenses for mutual funds, which negatively impacts a fund’s performance. Moreover, funds with a higher turnover rate pay more capital gains taxes than funds having a lower rate. That said, choosing a mutual fund with a high portfolio turnover ratio can still make sense if it delivers a higher risk-adjusted return than a fund with a lower turnover rate.
Usually, a lower turnover rate indicates higher returns for investors. Mutual funds with a low turnover rate incur lower costs to run the fund. As a result, they typically charge a lower expense ratio than funds with a high turnover rate. This leads to higher returns for investors.
The turnover rate cannot be negative. When the rate is 0, the portfolio manager did not make any changes over the past year.
Generally, 30% or less portfolio turnover in mutual funds is considered low. It suggests that the portfolio manager is using a passive investment strategy to generate returns for the investors.
This has been a guide to what is Portfolio Turnover. Here, we explain its formula, rate calculation, example, and comparison with the holding period.

A trust company is a legal arrangement set up or chosen by the grantor (an individual or entity) to manage assets and wealth for a certain period. Based on handling and distributing assets and estates to the beneficiaries, it can work in the capacity of a trustee, fiduciary, custodian, or agent.
Trust companies benefit affluent investors who do not have the time or experience to manage their assets. They will handle equities, funds, real estate, and tangible assetsTangible AssetsTangible assets are assets with significant value and are available in physical form. It means any asset that can be touched and felt could be labeled a tangible one with a long-term valuation.read more, among other investments.

Trust companies have existed for many decades, and their popularity has grown. They are no longer a luxury service available only to the wealthy. Their success stems from the fact that they are effective means of preserving capital.
Hiring such a company can get qualified assistance to manage their assets. Besides administering and managing the trust, these entities will oversee wealth management, asset managementAsset ManagementAsset management is a method of managing funds and investing in both traditional and specialized products in order to generate returns consistent with the investor's risk tolerance. read more, brokerage, and financial planningFinancial PlanningFinancial planning is a structured approach to understanding your current and future financial goals and then taking the necessary measures to accomplish them. Because this does not begin and end in a specific time frame, it is referred to as an ongoing process.read more services.
Alternatively, a trustee company may be established for someone else, such as a child. Since the trust does not have to be administered directly, the child will not have access to it until it reaches a certain age.
Trust companies also have the license to act as fiduciary agents. As a result, one can sign a contract authorizing them to manage their properties and initiate transactions on their behalf. When handling the client’s properties, they are legally obligated to put client interests ahead of their own. It makes the trust company a safe option from a legal standpoint.
Unlike a financial planner, who may only provide guidance and require permission to invest one’s assets, a trusted company would have full authority. It handles one’s wealth on their behalf, making decisions about achieving the best overall return.
One should be careful in their selection based on their jurisdiction. For example, some US states do not allow investing in a trust fundTrust FundA trust fund is a legal entity formed as part of an estate planning tool which holds a grantor’s assets and duly distributes them to the inheritors after the grantor passes away.read more unless the grantor has a certain amount of capital. Similarly, entities may refuse to administer trusts if the grantorGrantorA grantor refers to a person who has created a trust to manage his/her assets and legally transfer them to the beneficiary to avoid inheritance issues. For instance, a grantor could be a father who has created a trust to control and manage his real estate property, money, and investments and transfer them to his family upon his demise. Since it is a legal process, management, taxation, and transfer terms are specified in the agreement or a deed.read more does not have enough funds to make it worthwhile.
Trust companies profit from charging a percentage of the assets they manage, and the final fee will vary. The amount of money that a trust company charges depends on two factors: the individual rates of the company and the amount of money they manage.
For instance, if a company handles $1 million in assets for its client and charges an annual fee of 1%, the owner will have to pay $10,000 yearly.
The higher the amount of money a company manages, the lower the fees it will charge. It is not unusual to see costs range from 0.25% for a multimillionaire to 1% for one on the lower end of the scale. It is still profitable because a competent company will offer more than 1% in profit if it charges that much in fees.
A man named Joe inherited around $5 million from his uncle Melvin. The assets included real estate and equitiesEquitiesEquity refers to investor’s ownership of a company representing the amount they would receive after liquidating assets and paying off the liabilities and debts. It is the difference between the assets and liabilities shown on a company's balance sheet.read more. However, Joe is not an investor. He does not know how the market works and does not know what to do with all that money.
The solution is to look for a trusted company. Joe researches the market and finds two companies. Company A will administer the assets for an annual fee of 0.5%, and Company B will charge 0.8% of the assets in fees. While Company B charges more fees, he sees that it has a much better track record in the market, which means that the wealth would generate more returns.
Since Company B is way more efficient than Company A and its services worth the higher fees, Joe picks Company B.
It is important not to confuse a trusted company with a bank. While a bank can own trust companies, their services are fundamentally different.
This has been a guide to What a trusted company is & its Definition. Here we discuss how it works along with an example, charges, services, and differences. 
Preservation of capital is a conservative investment approach intended to protect money and avoid losing value in a portfolio. It ensures retaining the monetary value of an asset. This entails investment in secure and temporary instruments like treasury bills, savings accounts, and certificates of deposits (CDs). 
Inclusion of assets into the capital preservation portfolio relies upon the investor’s risk toleranceRisk ToleranceRisk tolerance is the investors' potential and willingness to bear the uncertainties associated with their investment portfolios. It is influenced by multiple individual constraints like the investor's age, income, investment objective, responsibilities and financial condition.read more level and financial targets. Usually, investors with low-risk tolerance and short time horizons like pensioners employ this method. As a result, capital preservation brings smaller returns than other strategies that offer a higher return and more fierce growth.

Preservation of capital typically helps in safeguarding the investor’s funds via investment in short-term and safe instruments. Here, the main objective is to secure and maintain the principal amount without an appetite for massive prospective gains. Thus, asset protectionAsset ProtectionAsset protection refers to a set of legal strategies that debtors preemptively implement to protect their wealth from being seized by creditors. It also enables asset owners to avoid taxation and mortgage payment default without violating the debtor-creditor law.read more and its long-term durability shape the investment decision.
A capital preservation portfolio holds securities that are needed in the following 2-6 years. This includes treasury bills, high-yield savings accounts, US savings bonds, municipal bonds, target-date funds, CDs, and Annuities (Fixed and Immediate). It shields investors with a set remunerationRemunerationRemuneration refers to overall monetary and non-monetary compensation that employees or independent contractors receive for providing services to an organization or company.read more from market arbitrariness.
Preservation of capital and income generation is crucial for aged investors. Unlike younger investors with enough disposable time, market inconstancy is a huge danger for the senior group because of instant capital requirements. As a result, they have a shorter timeframe to recover from loss and increase savings. This is why the capital preservation strategy gives priority to preventing asset losses.
Capital preservation is perfect for old-age pensioners dependent on reserves and investments to cover current livelihood expenditures. These types of investors also face the problem of a shortened period for recovery from losses. Therefore, it aids them in preserving wealthWealthWealth refers to the overall value of assets, including tangible, intangible, and financial, accumulated by an individual, business, organization, or nation.read more and supporting their lifestyle after concluding their professional tenure. Also, capital preservation is convenient for youthful investors to save cash for a real estate down payment.
Investors must consider market alterations before selecting securities for capital preservation. In other words, they must be able to secure the capital’s nominal worth, excluding the additional costs. Moreover, doubtful investors may connect with a financial consultant and choose the finest allocation mix befitting their risk tolerance, time horizon, and monetary goals.
Investment techniques differ according to the investor’s life stage and risk tolerance. Preservation of capital and income generation secures the asset’s inflation-adjusted earnings. Thus, it ensures that a pile of cash can purchase a similar amount of products within the retention period. In conclusion, capital preservation is crucial to investing.
Stock investments are unsafe for this method due to unexpected market variations. However, bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more with short duration are deemed suitable for the same. This is because it is driven by the idea to safeguard wealth and not gain significant profits. Nevertheless, increased dividendsDividendsDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more might be the by-product of this process.
Here are the major advantages of capital preservation.
Therefore, the preservation of capital is commonly referred to as a safe investment approach. Federal Deposit Insurance Commission (FDIC) ensures most of these accounts are for at most $250,000 in the event of missing finances due to any sudden happenings.
A recent MoneyWeek news report discusses the relevance of capital preservation amid the ongoing Russian invasion. Consequently, the existing inflation problem has become substantially worse and will remain the same for a prolonged period. In addition, this will result in domestic unrest.
So, the focus must be on preserving capital rather than growing the income. Steering clear of dangers with efficient management is suggested rather than identifying opportunities.
Another latest article by Medium mentions how capital preservation helps combat high inflation and a low-interest-rate environment. Accordingly, if everything goes right, it helps the investors live off around 10% of their total value and 6-12 months of emergency expenditures. The article also suggests readers invest at least 5%-10% of their assets into a low-risk instrument.
Inflation reduces the value of money, thus diminishing the purchasing power. Accordingly, employing this strategy long-term safeguards the investor’s money but provides lower dividends with even a 1% or 2% inflation rate.
However, there are a few alternatives to resolve this issue. For instance, investors with sufficient riches may utilize compounding interestCompounding InterestCompound interest is the interest charged on the sum of the principal amount and the total interest amassed on it so far. It plays a crucial role in generating higher rewards from an investment.read more to counterbalance inflation. Also, the US Treasury’s Inflation-Protected securities are a good investment option.
The present-day market environment is unpredictable, with continually shifting financial conditions. So, there are a limited number of risk-free, reliable, and sound investments in the economic landscape.
Prolonged variability and persistently changing market landscape lessens the probability of positive returns. Hence, such investments provide meager to almost zero revenueRevenueRevenue is the amount of money that a business can earn in its normal course of business by selling its goods and services. In the case of the federal government, it refers to the total amount of income generated from taxes, which remains unfiltered from any deductions.read more.

It is a conservative investment method to secure an asset’s monetary value through investment in low-risk vehicles. Less often, it refers to safeguarding the inflation-adjusted purchasing power of security.
1. Reduce the exposure to adversely performing assets after inflation and aim at equities, real estate, or any such real assets.2 . Enhance the time horizon.3 . Avoid short-lived portfolio irregularities owing to market fluctuations and political upheaval.
1. US treasury bills2. High-yield savings accounts3. US savings bonds4. Municipal bonds5. Target-date funds6. Certificates of deposits (CDs)7. Annuities
The limitations of capital preservation are,1. Inflation2. Unavailability of low-risk investment vehicles, and3. Minor to almost zero dividends
This has been a guide to the preservation of capital and its definition. Here we discuss the purpose, benefits, examples, limitations, & who must opt for it. 
Blind trust is a trust set up by the grantor to transfer complete control of their assets and investments to an independent third-party trustee. Once established, the trustor and the beneficiary hold little to no knowledge over or interfere in the trust fund management or any income generated.
The trustee or fiduciary controlling the grantor assets can be an individual or institution. It enables the latter, such as politicians and businesspeople, to maintain confidentiality or avoid conflicts of interest arising from their professions, investments, or assets. These trusts can either be revocable or irrevocable, based on whether the trustor can change or terminate them.


The Blind trust describes a specific type of trust created by the grantorGrantorA grantor refers to a person who has created a trust to manage his/her assets and legally transfer them to the beneficiary to avoid inheritance issues. For instance, a grantor could be a father who has created a trust to control and manage his real estate property, money, and investments and transfer them to his family upon his demise. Since it is a legal process, management, taxation, and transfer terms are specified in the agreement or a deed.read more to authorize a trustee to handle their investment holdings. The trustor has no control over how the funds are managed or used once the trust is set up. All they or their beneficiary can do is receive the income from these assets. In most cases, the settler is also the beneficiary.
This legal arrangement protects the individual against actual or perceived conflicts of interest, privacy concerns, and misconduct allegations. It remains active only during the grantor’s lifetime and is called a ‘living trustLiving TrustA living trust is a legal document created during a person’s lifetime that adds assets such as cash, real estate, stocks, and bonds into a trust.read more.’
The term “blind” implies what the general public knows, not what the trustor knows.
Besides managing assets, the fiduciary undertakes investment activities on behalf of the grantor. And the trustee acts in the best interest of the trustor and the beneficiary. The grantor can determine the terms of the trust according to which it can function.
It is worth noting that the trusteeTrusteeA trustee is an individual or institution with legal authority to manage the trust property and assets on behalf of the settlor to benefit the beneficiary. They have complete control over the trust assets until they get transferred to the beneficiary. The administration of assets goes as per the directions of the trust.
read more and the trustor cannot have a relationship. One cannot choose a family member or an old acquaintance as a trustee and expect the others to believe the trust is truly “blind.” Doing so will defeat the whole purpose of creating this trust.

A living trust can be of two types, depending on its nature. In the revocable trust, the grantor can change or terminate it and get their assets back whenever they want. However, an irrevocable trust does not allow this freedom.
Let us look at some blind trust examples explaining why someone would willingly relinquish ownership of their possessions:
Many influential people use living trusts. Politicians from affluent backgrounds, for example, frequently do so because their constituents expect them to act in their best interests, not their financial interests. They keep themselves from any potential conflict of interest deriving from their investments in a firm or assets by appointing a trustee.
People from all levels of the government, including mayors, governors, senators, and administrative personnel, can opt for it. While they are not legally obliged to do it, several high-profile former United States officials have done so. Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Ronald Reagan were among the presidents who established such trusts.
Another blind trust example is the board member of a public company. Since they have a fiduciary responsibility, they cannot afford a conflict of interest while serving on the board. As a result, they create a living trust to avoid disqualification to take a position on the board.
Renowned journalists, religious leaders, and corporate professionals, such as CEOs, are expected to act in the public interest, allowing people to trust them. Hence, setting up a blind trust helps them avoid conflicts of interest arising from using public funds for personal gains and puts them in a positive light.
The main reason why an individual must establish a living trust is to minimize potential conflicts of interest between their profession and investments and to protect their financial privacy. However, officially distancing oneself from investment holdings may appear a terrible choice at first glance as it allows one to lose control over their wealthWealthWealth refers to the overall value of assets, including tangible, intangible, and financial, accumulated by an individual, business, organization, or nation.read more.

Conflict of interest is a common occurrence, especially in influential positions. While it may result in politicians losing power, they may need to form a trust when their financial affiliations can affect their obligations toward their constituents. It can also lead to CEOs and board of directorsBoard Of DirectorsBoard of Directors (BOD) refers to a corporate body comprising a group of elected people who represent the interest of a company’s stockholders. The board forms the top layer of the hierarchy and focuses on ensuring that the company efficiently achieves its goals.
read more being accused of crimes like insider tradingInsider TradingInsider trading is defined as the act of taking key trading decisions related to a company’s listed stock using critical non-public information. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) penalizes offenders of illegal insider trading as it causes material loss to the investors. It also shakes their faith in the stock market.
read more.
For example, Jane is a member of the board of directors and a shareholderShareholderA shareholder is an individual or an institution that owns one or more shares of stock in a public or a private corporation and, therefore, are the legal owners of the company. The ownership percentage depends on the number of shares they hold against the company's total shares.read more of the company ABC. One day, she sells ABC’s shares and buys those of a competitor for some reason. If ABC faces any trouble in the next couple of days, such as a scam coming to notice, it could lead to a sharp fall in its share price. Jane could be accused of insider trading as she had recently invested in another company.
Jane can consider transferring all her ABC shares into a living trust here. The trustee will be the one who sells ABC’s stock. Thus, she will have no information regarding the handling of her investments. And Jane will not be charged with insider trading because the trustee has no stake in ABC.
Another reason behind creating a living trust is its anonymity to the grantor. Because the assets will not be linked to the trustor, they will not show in their public records. It will make it difficult to determine who owns these funds. Lottery winners may also use these trusts to conceal their identities and keep their money hidden from public view.
The first step to establishing a living trust is ensuring one needs it. Then, the person needs to clearly define all the assets and investments to be transferred to the trust. These are expensive investments and often have high maintenance fees because the trustee will need to make investment decisions all by themselves.

Next, the grantor connects with an attorney to permit a third-party trustee to hold and manage their funds. It requires the trustor to sign a contract giving complete discretion to the trustee to use assets per their investment goals. The grantor can also decide on the investment limits and name beneficiariesName BeneficiariesA named beneficiary is a person whose name appears on legal documentation as a result of the force of law or a decree. If there are multiple named beneficiaries, the proceeds from the assets will be divided among them accordingly.read more.
After filling out the trust document, the trustor can start managing the fund. There will be no further communication between the trustee and the grantor about the management of blind trust funds.
While the trustee should not be someone the grantor knows closely, they should be someone the grantor can trust. It is, therefore, crucial to pick a trustee with a well-known background.
Another necessity is to follow all local regulations, especially if the grantor is in a government position. The U.S. government, for example, has specific laws that define whether a trust is qualified or not. Thus, hiring an experienced financial consultant or a lawyer is essential to structure a trust without errors.
It is also critical to determine whether the trust should be revocable or not, based on one’s financial goals. In the first case, despite not having any control over the funds within the trust, the grantor can modify provisions or decide to shut it off at any time. If it is an irrevocable trust, the grantor cannot make any changes but can continue receiving its income. When this happens, the blind trust funds extinguish.
It is impossible to say with certainty that the living trust will eliminate all conflicts of interest or charges of wrongdoing. It is so because the trustor does have some control over its assets and investments.
Finding someone trustworthy and not connected to the grantor is also an issue. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the person or institution chosen to be the trustee will adhere to the code of ethics.
In a blind or living trust, the grantor (or trustor) gives a third-party trustee complete control of their assets. The independent trustee manages the funds and has absolute discretion over how to spend them. In this process, the settlor remains unaware of the management of assets and investments and cannot intervene in the trustee’s actions at any time.
Blind trusts are complex to draft and require extensive knowledge about various regulations. The lack of knowledge and loss of control over assets can lead to financial risks for the trustor. It is also complicated to identify the right person or institution to fill the role of trustee, as there is no guarantee that they will follow the code of ethics.
Blind trusts are effective for people who wish to maintain a high level of privacy regarding their financial assets. These also help avoid conflicts of interest in professions to a certain extent. However, whether these trusts fully serve their purpose is debatable because there is always an element of tentativeness associated with them.
This has been a guide to What blind trust is and its Meaning. Here we explain how blind trust works along with its reasons, challenges, examples and how to set it up? 
An accredited investor is any firm or individual that enjoys access to those securities which are not registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and hence, are not available to normal traders. However, an investor must fulfill certain criteria to become one.

An accredited investor can make angel investments and spend on venture capitalVenture CapitalVenture capital (VC) refers to a type of long-term finance extended to startups with high-growth potential to help them succeed exponentially. read more, private equity funds, real estate investment funds, hedge fundsHedge FundsA hedge fund is an aggressively invested portfolio made through pooling of various investors and institutional investor’s fund. It supports various assets providing high returns in exchange for higher risk through multiple risk management and hedging techniques.read more, cryptocurrency investment options, etc. Some such investors include high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs), investment banksInvestment BanksInvestment banking is a specialized banking stream that facilitates the business entities, government and other organizations in generating capital through debts and equity, reorganization, mergers and acquisition, etc.read more, private equity companiesPrivate Equity CompaniesPrivate equity firms are investment managers who invest in many corporations' private equities using various strategies such as leveraged buyouts, growth capital, and venture capital. The top private equity firms include Apollo Global Management LLC, Blackstone Group LP, Carlyle Group, and KKR & Company LP.read more, partnership firms, etc.

An accredited investor gets an opportunity to deal in securities that are not accessible to normal people or firms in trading. Regulation D of the SEC allows individuals and firms to sell securities to investors, exempting a few from SEC guidelines. The ones who get access to such assets are considered accredited market traders.
As the registration process is expensive, the securities-issuing firms or individuals save lots of money. As the unregistered assets tend to involve higher risk, the financial authorities verify the transactions dealing with such securities. This is to make sure investors participating in the deal are financially strong enough to handle such investments. This is what makes them a kind of accredited investor.
Every nation has a specific set of accredited investor requirements. In the United States, Regulation D’s Rule 501 outlines criteria that one has to meet to be eligible for becoming an accredited trader. 

A person or firm can is accredited only when either of the following SEC criteria is met:
When an entity or individual fulfills any of the above criteria, it ensures the investor is capable enough to bear the losses, if any. Though SEC does not restrict the accredited investing options in any manner, it does make sure that the investment options are not accessed or made available to someone incapable.
Let us consider the following examples to understand the concept better:
Scarlet decides to try investing in securities that are not accessible to other investors. Hence, she went through the requirements of becoming an accredited trader. She checked the pointers but found herself ineligible with respect to the annual income and net worth requirements. However, her Series 7 license helped her grab the opportunity to become an accredited investor.
Michael chooses to invest in American startups, a riskier deal than making a normal investment. Putting money in a startup might either give 100x returns or even lead to a complete zero result. 
To invest, Michael needed to have more than $1 million of net worth. Thus, an angelist verifies the accreditation before allowing him to invest as an accredited trader. Once the accredited investor verification is done and the investor is found financially capable of bearing losses, the deal is allowed. 
As the name suggests, accredited investors have to prove their worth being called so. When an entity is accredited, the authorities know that they are eligible to tackle the losses resulting from an investment. 

Though the financial authorities do not interfere with the investments, they keep track of who is being accredited to handle the riskier options of the investment market. In short, the accreditation of investors is a type of government recognition that assures an entity has lots of money to cover up the losses if required.
The unregistered investments are riskier than the normal ones as only the basic information is made available to the participants. Based on that set of information, they decide whether to invest in an option.
Such investment options are not meant for novice traders as they require a high level of knowledge in investment. To be an accrediting investment participant, one needs to be a “knowledgeable” individual or entity.
Though an accredited investor and qualified purchaser have access to private funds and are similar, there are a few differences that investors must be aware of. 
The authorities scrutinize the accredited players based on the ability of the individuals or institutions to invest in specific kinds of securities that remain exempted from SEC guidelines. On the other hand, qualified purchasers are the ones who want to maximize their set of securities under management. They are also referred to as super-accredited investors, given the financial milestones are pretty much higher for a participant, be it an individual or institutional investorInstitutional InvestorInstitutional investors are entities that pool money from a variety of investors and individuals to create a large sum that is then handed to investment managers who invest it in a variety of assets, shares, and securities. Banks, NBFCs, mutual funds, pension funds, and hedge funds are all examples.read more.
Accredited investment makers get access to investment options that are not available to normal traders. It is a recognition that the government offers to individual and institutional investors when they find them capable of taking risks associated with the special investments that remain unregistered with the SEC.
Any investor with total assets worth $200,000 and above or a net worth of $1 million and more or having professional investment-related knowledge is an accredited trader. While finding one, anyone meeting either of the criteria can become an accredited investment maker.
Approximately 8.25 percent of the US population comprises accredited investment players.
This is a guide to Accredited Investor, its definition, pros & cons. Here we explain the requirements to become an accredited investor with examples. 
A drawdown is defined as the percentage of decline in the value of a security over a period before it bounces back to the original value or beyond. It is expressed as the difference between the highest, i.e., the peak value of that asset, and the lowest, i.e., the trough value of the same. Calculating the drawdown value helps investors identify the risks associated with a particular investment and accordingly prepare themselves to manage it.

While a drawdown instance is a common phenomenon when observed to a certain limit, investors’ portfolios are adversely affected when the limit is crossed. The more the dropdown, the harder it is for an investment or trading account to bounce back to a normal level.

The drawdown of funds or trading accounts allows investors to understand the extent to which the value of an investment could decline before it recovers its original position or value. For example, it is quite normal to witness a decline of 20% in the value of an investment, given the market fluctuations from time to time. However, investors need to worry if the downward movement from peak to trough exceeds that limit and shows a 40%-50% drawdown or above.
With the increase in the difference between the peak value of an investment and its trough, the drawdown deepens. And as the gap widens, it becomes tougher for that investment to bounce back to its original value. The same applies to drawdown in forex.
Investors use the drawdowns to analyze the historical set of trading data and identify the warning signs that the declining value of any investment exhibits. In addition, these also let them track and compare the performances of different funds and other trading instruments. The peak and trough difference enables individuals and firms to enjoy efficient asset managementAsset ManagementAsset management is a method of managing funds and investing in both traditional and specialized products in order to generate returns consistent with the investor's risk tolerance. read more by detecting the risks associated with securities.
Let us consider the following examples to understand the entire process of drawdown calculation:
Stephens invested $1,00,000 in a fund at the beginning of the year. At the year-end, the fund value decreases to $30,000, and then eventually, after one year, it goes back to $1,10,000.
In the first instance, the fund value decreases from $ 1,00,000 to $ 30,000, which reflects a 70% decrease. Though after a year, the fund value bounces back to $1,10,000, the drawdown recorded for that investment would be considered 70% in all the future analyses.
Katherine invests $ 10,000 to buy stocks at the beginning of 2019. Within a week, there was a minor fall in the portfolio due to the underperformance of one stock, which took the value down to $9,000. Then, in 2020, there was a sudden steep decline of up to $6,000 in the portfolio as one of the stocks turned obsolete. 
During mid-2020, the portfolio value recovered and increased to $11,000, given the sound performance of a stock. This absorbed the losses incurred from the obsolete stock.
In this scenario, the portfolio’s drawdown will be recorded as per the decline in value before the portfolio climbed back to $11,000. Thus, the drawdown here is $4,000 ( $10,000-$6,000 ) i.e., 40%, signifying the actual risk associated with the portfolio.
Drawdown trading is a significant way of assessing the risk associated with a portfolio. When the possible risks are known, investors can make investment decisions accordingly. They would have all the cards open in front to determine whether investing in a fund or trading account would be a good idea. 

Let us have a quick look at the benefits that this trading tool has to offer:
Besides the benefits, this trading tool has some limitations also. Here is a list of a few of them.

Drawdown refers to the extent to which the value of a fund, stock, or portfolio can decline. It is expressed as a percentage and calculated as the difference between an investment’s highest and the lowest value, termed as peak and trough, respectively, over a specific period.
Using drawdown as a tool in trading lets investors assess the extent of risk associated with a particular investment. Then, based on how much loss they can bear and manage, investors make investment decisions. Though it is complicated to calculate it using the drawdown formula in instances where there are frequent highs and lows, it still helps in risk assessment when studying the peak and trough is easy.
An annuity builds a source of income for individuals irrespective of their life span. In addition, the risk associated is too less. On the other hand, drawdowns lead to fluctuations in a pension pot based on how well the investments perform. There are chances of investors running out of money while alive. Though annuity offers a certain income throughout an individual’s life, the latter prepares people for the risks that they could avoid taking a few constructive steps.
This is a guide to what is Drawdown, its meaning, and its benefits. Here we explain its relevance in trading, forex, and banking along with examples. 
International Investments are those investments that are made outside the domestic markets and offer portfolio diversificationPortfolio DiversificationPortfolio diversification refers to the practice of investing in a different assets in order to maximize returns while minimizing risk. This way, the risk is kept to a minimal while the investor accumulates many assets. Investment diversification leads to a healthy portfolio.read more and opportunities for risk minimization. An investor can make international investments, thereby broadening his portfolio and expanding his horizon of returns. 

International investments also serve as a means of adding different financial instrumentsFinancial InstrumentsFinancial instruments are certain contracts or documents that act as financial assets such as debentures and bonds, receivables, cash deposits, bank balances, swaps, cap, futures, shares, bills of exchange, forwards, FRA or forward rate agreement, etc. to one organization and as a liability to another organization and are solely taken into use for trading purposes.read more to the list when domestic markets are confined and limited by their variety. International investments aim to assure investors of two probabilities; the counter of domestic market risks and the opportunities in foreign markets.
International investments have gained momentum since the start of this century. While these investments provide greater options, they also have their share of risks. Many investors in the developed economies invest in the growing economies to seek prospects of higher returns. Some investments are made into managed funds, exchange-traded funds, etc. with the purpose of diversification and expectations of modest returns.
There are many legal bodies (Bank for International SettlementsBank For International SettlementsBIS is the Bank for International Settlements. It aims to serve the central banks in promoting monetary and financial stability, fostering international cooperation, and acting as the bank for different central banks and facilitating their collaborations.read more being one) that oversee the transactions happening across the world. On the one hand, best international investments boost foreign economies and bring in more influx of money; they are also responsible for scaling up market confidence and corporate credence. Investors in one part of the world may find a variety of combinations of equity and debt instruments being traded in some other part of the world. 
Best international investments types can be broadly classified into the following categories:

The global international investments can be done through these financial instruments.
Some examples of global international investments made across the globe:
FDI fell by over one third during the global recessionGlobal RecessionGlobal recession refers to a condition when the countries across the globe experience an economic downturn for an extended period. It is a form of synchronized economic downfall encountered by the various interrelated economies throughout the world.read more period in 2009 but later recuperated in 2010.
Some important points to note regarding international investment companies are as given below.
While the domestic market attracts investors in its own right, international investment theories too have advantages.
Investments in international markets come with many drawbacks. Some of them are cited below:
Thus the international investment theories have the above risks too. 

This has been a guide to what is International Investments. We explain its types, risks, examples, financial instruments, & important points to note. 
Alpha in finance refers to an unrealistic rate of return. It is a performance metric that gauges improbable returns from an investment. Thus, it is also referred to as the abnormal rate of return. For comparison, it is collated with the benchmark return index.

It is a scenario where the investment has beaten the market or closed it with an edge. The alpha varies for each investment strategy. The value of alpha can be either positive or negative. The concept draws criticism for its inaccuracy, improbability, and application.

Alpha in finance is the difference between the expected rate of return and the unexpected rate of return. The alpha varies for each investment strategy. Thus, alpha is an index used to determine the highest possible return that can be achieved with minimal risk. Alpha is also known as the Jensen Index.

For an individual portfolio, alpha is calculated by deducting the expected rate of return from the actual rate of return of the portfolio:
Alpha = Portfolio’s Actual Rate Of Return Of Portfolio – Expected Rate Of Return 
The alpha value demonstrates how much worse or better a fund had performed—concerning a benchmark. This variance is then credited to the judgments made by the fund manager. 
Alpha is the study of how a certain investment strategy brought an unrealistically positive rate of return. Fund managers study why the particular strategy works. Stock market benchmarks are based on past data and trends. When an investment strategy goes beyond that index rate, and the investor earns over-the-top profits, the difference between the index rate and the real rate of return signifies the alpha value.
Similarly, there is a concept called beta in finance. The beta measures an investment’s volatility. The alpha and beta values are used in conjunction. In statistics, beta is the slope of the line obtained by regressing the returns of stock return and market return. The alpha value can be applied to a simple investment and measure an entire portfolio’s performance.
Let us look at the alpha in finance example to understand the concept better.
Faye has studied the equity markets very minutely and conducted detailed research. She invests in a couple of promising stocks every year.In 2022, Faye invested $9000 in a similar stock. Before investing, she studies the particular industry in detail. She invests at the right time. The benchmark returns are at 9%. So technically speaking, Faye could earn a 9% return on her investment of $9000—that is $9810.
But Faye was no ordinary investor. Due to her detailed research, she invested in a stock that yielded a 20% return—$10800.
Let us apply the alpha formula to the given values:
Faye beat the market by 11%.
Alternatively, the capital assets pricing model (CAPM) can be used to measure a portfolio’s performance:
Alpha = Portfolio Return – Risk-Free ROR – Beta x (Benchmark Return – Risk-Free ROR)
Now, let us assume Faye’s portfolio returned 8%, a risk-free ROR of 11%, and a beta of 1.8% against a benchmark of 9%. 
In this scenario, we determine the alpha value of Faye’s portfolio by substituting the values in the formula:
Here, the alpha is 0.6%. Since the value is positive, it reflects that Faye’s portfolio is outperforming the market. But there are cases where alpha values are negative, in which case, the investment is underperforming.
The beta and alpha values indicate performance or volatility associated with a portfolio or investment. Now, let us look at beta vs alpha in finance comparisons to distinguish between the two.
Now, let us look at alpha in finance limitations.
Any positive alpha value is considered good because it technically means that the investment has performed well, but a high alpha value comes with a higher risk.
A negative alpha value means that the investment is underperforming in the market. For example, suppose the alpha value is -3; that would mean it underperformed its benchmark by 3%. A zero alpha states that the investment’s performance matched its benchmark.
By using futures to control multiple assets with a smaller amount of capital, an investor or fund manager can either invest in risk-free securities or pick individual stocks as per choice to generate positive returns to increase alpha.
This has been a guide to what is Alpha in Finance. Here, we compare it with beta and explain its formula, example, and limitations. 
Investment Income is the income that is generated through dividends, payment of interest, and capital gains through the sale of any asset or security and profits made by any kind of investment vehicles like bonds, mutual funds, etc. Even income from interest on bank accounts, real estate or profits from sale of valuables fall in this catagory. 
Generally, people earn a large quantity of their total income every year from their salary income but, properly planned savings and the investments in the financial markets can actually convert nominal savings into big portfolios of investment, which will surely yield that investor a good investment income over the time.
This is an income that generates from interest, dividend, and capital gains. It is a good practice to keep investing in stocks, bonds or mutual funds, etc. people have at least a generation of income from these investments, which helps them in keeping up with their monetary needs or wants. Some investments help in tax saving also, which is an advantage to the common man. The chosen investments should be a wise choice that generates a wealthy return.
There are several types of investment incomes, out of which major ones include interest incomeInterest IncomeInterest Income is the amount of revenue generated by interest-yielding investments like certificates of deposit, savings accounts, or other investments & it is reported in the Company’s income statement. read more, capital gain, and investment income dividends, etc.
Investment incomes help in saving taxes as there are much tax-free or tax saving investment schemes that attract investors to invest as they save a lot of tax for people.
The investor will be able to face inflation. For example, if a person has invested his funds in fixed-income generation investment, his income is fixed from his assets. Therefore, when rates are so high during inflation, he will be earning the same income and can spend it appropriately.
There is no investment income that is suitable for all individuals. It always varies from person to person depending on the earnings and investments. Investments like municipal bonds help in saving taxes but then give a very low return. They are suitable for individuals for those who cannot afford to take risk but need a stable return. Investment in stocks have a good return potential but also come with a very high risk.
There are several types of investment incomes out of which major ones are explained below:

A person will earn income as an interest in investments that generate interest in the deposition of funds into bonds, certificates of depositsCertificates Of DepositsA certificate of deposit (CD) is an investment instrument mostly issued by banks, requiring investors to lock in funds for a fixed term to earn high returns. CDs essentially require investors to set aside their savings and leave them untouched for a fixed period.read more, money market instrumentsMoney Market InstrumentsThe money market is a financial market wherein short-term assets and open-ended funds are traded between institutions and traders.read more, etc. earlier, the investors who are in need of some cash can withdraw money from their interest income without even disturbing the principal amount invested. But nowadays, the interest rates are very low hence;, it’s really difficult to expect the same return from dividend and interest on a consistent basis.
If a person utilizes the interest income either from cash, taxable bonds, or certificate of deposits, the same is taxed at the regular income tax rate. Additionally, if the investment is long-term, then that person is required to show the interest income earned in the income tax return even if you do not withdraw cash from that investment.
DividendsDividendsDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more are paid by the companies on the basis of their earnings to the shareholders or investors on a per-share basis of the stock. If the investment is in mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more that have funds into dividend stocksDividend StocksA stock dividend refers to bonus shares paid to shareholders instead of cash. Companies resort to such dividends when there is a cash crunch. Shareholders are allotted a certain percentage of shareholding.read more, then the investor earns a share of that company through dividends on a yearly or quarterly basis.
The taxes are to be paid on investment income dividends as well, and the regular tax rate applies to these Ordinary dividends, whereas there are some dividends labeled as “qualified” are taxed at a capital gains rate that is generally lower.
A rise in the asset’s value, like in an investment on real estate or stock, which is more than its purchase price then, that increased value is the capital gain, but the same is realized only when the underlying assetUnderlying AssetUnderlying assets are the actual financial assets on which the financial derivatives rely. Thus, any change in the value of a derivative reflects the price fluctuation of its underlying asset. Such assets comprise stocks, commodities, market indices, bonds, currencies and interest rates.read more is sold. The investor has to pay taxes on the capital gains according to the period of the gain, whether it is short term or long term capital gain. The long term holing of any investment is better than the short term as the tax rates are lower on long term capital gains.
The following are the different examples of investment income strategies:
If an investor holds 100 shares in a corporate and that entity pays 50% of its earnings as dividends and says the earnings are Rs. 10 per share, therefore, the dividend amount is Rs. 5 per share, the investor, earns Rs. 500 per year i.e., 100 shares multiplied by Dividend Per ShareDividend Per ShareDividends per share are calculated by dividing the total amount of dividends paid out by the company over a year by the total number of average shares held.read more Rs. 5.
An investor “A” invests an amount of Rs. 1000 to buy 20 shares of a company selling at par i.e., Rs. 50. Next year the price of that share rises to Rs. 70 per share and  “A” decides to sell ten shares from his stock; then, his capital gain will be Rs. 200 [ 10 shares @ Rs. 70/ share = 700 less original price 10 shares @ Rs. 50/ share = Rs. 500 ].
All such incomes are not subject to taxes but most of them are when they are earned. The tax that will be charged depends on various factors like time period for which the investment has been held, what kind of investment it is, and the taxpayer’s financial condition.
Certain investments and the gains from them are exempted from tax. But the long term capital gains and income from dividends are taxed upto a maximum limit of 20%.
Such investment income strategies can be used alongside the income earned by individuals to reduce the total tax payable and offset the tax liability. Thus it is a method of getting tax credit.
The various advantages related to the aggregate investment income are as follows:
The various disadvantages related to the aggregate investment income are as follows:
Thus, the various disadvantages of and investment income portfolio are mentioned in the points given above.
Let us look at some differences between investment income and capital gains.
This has been a guide to what is Investment Income. We explain its taxes with examples, differences with capital gains, types, advantages & disadvantages. 
Capital accumulation refers to the appreciation in the value of the amount invested in any asset, whether tangible or intangible; in other words, it is the positive difference between the invested value and the value on the date of calculation. For example, suppose we have invested an amount of $100,000 in some shares, and on the date of calculation, the value of such shares is $150,000. The amount of capital accumulation is $50,000, which is the difference between the amount invested and the amount on the date of calculation.

The capital accumulation equation is defined as the difference between the invested amount and the value on the date of calculation. Mathematically, it is represented as:
Suppose ABC Inc. has the following investments and their values as on the date of calculation of capital accumulation, which is as follows:
Now, in the above example, we have to calculate capital accumulation, which is as follows:
Total of the amount invested
Total of the current value
Capital Accumulation = Current Value – Amount Invested
Mr. A has invested a sum of $1,500,000 and purchased 1500 shares of Reliance Industries Ltd at a rate of $1000 per share in April 2019 and had also purchased land amounting to $17,000,000. The current value per share of Reliance Industries Limited is $1100 per share at the end of the year, and $20,000,000 is the value of the land. Now Mr. A wants to calculate the capital accumulation on the investment made, which is as follows:
Now,
= (1500 shares * $1000 per share) plus $17,000,000
= (1500 shares * $1100 per share) plus $20,000,000
= $(21,650,000-18,500,000)
Mr. A has earned $3,150,000 on the investments made in shares of Reliance industries ltd, which gives a return of approximately 17% p.a. within a year during the period of investments, which is computed as (3,150,000/18,500,000 * 100 * 1 year ).
This has been a guide to What capital accumulation is & its Definition. Here we discuss the equation to calculate capital accumulation and why it is important, along with rules and measures. 
Portfolio management involves overseeing a set of investments, including securities, bonds, exchange-traded funds, mutual funds, cryptocurrencies, etc., on a personal or professional level. Its purpose is to help investors achieve their long-term financial goals and manage their liquidity needs and risk tolerance.
The approach intends to maximize investors’ earnings based on their income, savings, budget, and timeline while minimizing the market riskMarket RiskMarket risk is the risk that an investor faces due to the decrease in the market value of a financial product that affects the whole market and is not limited to a particular economic commodity. It is often called systematic risk.read more. This strategy emphasizes choosing the optimum investment policy or a collection of investments called a portfolio. It comprises various processes, including asset allocationAsset AllocationAsset Allocation is the process of investing your money in various asset classes such as debt, equity, mutual funds, and real estate, depending on your return expectations and risk tolerance. This makes it easier to achieve your long-term financial goals.read more, rebalancing, diversification, and tax reduction. Portfolio managersPortfolio ManagersA portfolio manager is a financial market expert who strategically designs investment portfolios.read more are those who monitor and manage investments on behalf of their clients.
Portfolio management protects the assets of investors against market risks while also allowing them to profit handsomely. It usually entails setting financial goals, picking the correct investments, allocating assets, assessing risks, and diversifying resources to avoid losses. Investors can make significant profits by aligning their income and financial objectives with their risk toleranceRisk ToleranceRisk tolerance is the investors' potential and willingness to bear the uncertainties associated with their investment portfolios. It is influenced by multiple individual constraints like the investor's age, income, investment objective, responsibilities and financial condition.read more. They can develop a strategy to invest in assets, such as stocks, bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more, ETFs, mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more, private equityPrivate EquityPrivate equity (PE) refers to a financing approach where companies acquire funds from firms or accredited investors instead of stock marketsread more, digital currenciesDigital CurrenciesDigital currency is a currency found only in an electronic form as it is used for trading over the internet. They are famous for allowing transparent and secured digital payments. Although their popularity is constantly growing, their adoption as a reliable alternative to physical money is nowhere close. Some of the popular digital currencies are Ethereum, Bitcoin, and Litecoin.read more, real estate, and precious metals.

Individuals and businesses build and manage their income and assets through the portfolio management process, which involves considering various short- and long-term financial plans. They can do so by themselves or by contacting a portfolio manager for better understanding and outlook. The latter recommends the best and most tailored investment policies. Portfolio management services also guide investors about unforeseen risks, market stability, opportunity, and the right time to invest. In both circumstances, the method could lead to higher profits and lower risks in a set period.
The strategy focuses on picking the optimal pool of investments based on the investor’s income, aim, time horizon, and risk tolerance. Let us look at some of the portfolio management objectives:
 
The portfolio management process comes in various forms, each with its own set of characteristics:
Here, portfolio managers actively sell and purchase stocks, bonds, and other assets using quantitative or qualitative methods to maximize profits for their clients. They strategize to outperform the stock market indexStock Market IndexA market index tracks the performance of a diverse selection of securities that make up a significant part of the financial market. It serves as an indicator of the overall financial market condition by listing the historical and real-time trends in different market segments.
read more by buying undervalued securities and selling them at higher prices.
In this type, portfolio management services build and manage a fixed portfolio of index fundsIndex FundsIndex Funds are passive funds that pool investments into selected securities.read more, such as ETFs corresponding to current market conditions. Even though these funds offer lower returns, they are more consistent and profitable over time.
Investors appoint portfolio managers to make financial decisions on their behalf based on their goals and risk appetite to maximize earningsEarningsEarnings are usually defined as the net income of the company obtained after reducing the cost of sales, operating expenses, interest, and taxes from all the sales revenue for a specific time period. In the case of an individual, it comprises wages or salaries or other payments.read more. It may also include paperwork and filing in addition to investment management.
In this case, portfolio managers can only advise on the best investment plans, while the decision-making authority rests solely with investors.
The following are some of the steps involved in managing an investment portfolioInvestment PortfolioPortfolio investments are investments made in a group of assets (equity, debt, mutual funds, derivatives or even bitcoins) instead of a single asset with the objective of earning returns that are proportional to the investor's risk profile.read more:
Understanding the investor’s needs is the initial step in the process, which entails several stages, such as:
After having developed an effective investment plan, the portfolio manager proceeds with the following steps:
Once investments have been made in a group of assets, it is crucial to keep track of their performances at regular intervals:
Various strategies can be employed to accomplish the goal of investment portfolio management, i.e., to outperform the market, generate returns, and lower risks. Although predicting the future of financial marketsFinancial MarketsThe term "financial market" refers to the marketplace where activities such as the creation and trading of various financial assets such as bonds, stocks, commodities, currencies, and derivatives take place. It provides a platform for sellers and buyers to interact and trade at a price determined by market forces.read more is almost impossible, there are a few proven ways to improve profitabilityProfitabilityProfitability refers to a company's ability to generate revenue and maximize profit above its expenditure and operational costs. It is measured using specific ratios such as gross profit margin, EBITDA, and net profit margin. It aids investors in analyzing the company's performance.read more:

This strategy involves investing in different types of assetsTypes Of AssetsAssets are the resources owned by individuals, companies, or governments expected to generate future cash flows over a long period. There are broadly three types of asset distribution: 1. Based on convertibility (current and non-current assets), 2. Physical existence (tangible and intangible assets), 3. Usage (operating and non-operating assets)read more (volatile and non-volatile) based on the investor’s investment goals and risk tolerance. Eventually, it can result in significant returns with little risk.
Investors or portfolio managers must diversify the investment portfolio to spread the risk and generate profits. Financial markets are volatile and subject to risks. Hence, having a diverse portfolio of assets with little or no correlation means profit made by one can easily offset the loss incurred by another.
Market volatility may cause an investment plan to diverge from its target allocation. Therefore, rebalancing the portfolio based on market conditions might result in higher returns with little risk. The common ways to do this include buying and selling assets as required or increasing portfolio investment.
It is nothing more than figuring out a strategy to avoid paying excessive taxes on investment returns.
Portfolio management helps investors match their financial goals with their risk tolerance while making considerable profits. They can develop an investment strategy for various assets, including equities, bonds, ETFs, mutual funds, private equity, digital currencies, real estate, and precious metals. Setting financial goals, choosing the correct investments, allocating assets, identifying risks, and diversifying resources to avoid losses are all part of it.
Portfolio managers or portfolio management services monitor and manage investments on behalf of investors. They, thus, assist their clients in achieving their long-term financial goals, maximizing returns depending on their income, budget, and time horizon, and reducing risk tolerance. Besides, they offer advice on unforeseen risks, market stability, opportunities, and the optimum time for investment.
Portfolio management could result in higher returns on investment with fewer risks by considering multiple short- and long-term financing options over a set period. Investing in a variety of assets ensures the growth and stability of managed investments. Other benefits include capital appreciation, effective resource allocation, and a financially secure future.
This has been a guide to portfolio management and its meaning. Here we discuss how portfolio management works along with its process, strategies, types, and objectives.
Portfolio Analysis is one of the areas of investment management that enable market participants to analyze and assess the performance of a portfolio (equities, bonds, alternative investments, etc.), intending to measure performance on a relative and absolute basis along with its associated risks.
Some of the top ratios used are as follows –
It calculates the overall return during the investment holding period.
Holding Period ReturnHolding Period ReturnHolding period return refers to total returns over the period for which an investment was held, usually expressed in percentage of initial investment, and for comparing returns from various investments held for different periods of time.read more ={(Ending Value–Beginning Value)+Dividends Received}/Beginning Value
It calculates the average returns of the overall portfolio.
Arithmetic MeanArithmetic MeanArithmetic mean denotes the average of all the observations of a data series. It is the aggregate of all the values in a data set divided by the total count of the observations.read more = (R1 + R2 + R3 +……+ Rn) / n
R = Returns of Individual Assets
It calculates the excess return over and above the risk-free return per unit of portfolio risk.
Sharpe Ratio FormulaSharpe Ratio FormulaThe Sharpe ratio formula calculates the excess return over the risk-free return per unit of the portfolio's volatility. The risk-free rate of return gets subtracted from the expected portfolio return and is divided by the standard deviation of the portfolio. Sharpe ratio = (Rp – Rf)/ σpread more = (Expected Return – Risk-Free rate of return) / Standard Deviation (Volatility)
It calculates the difference between the actual portfolio returns and the expected returns.
Alpha of portfolioAlpha Of PortfolioThe term alpha refers to an index that is used in a variety of financial models, including the capital asset pricing model, to determine the maximum possible return from a low-risk investment. Alpha of portfolio = Actual rate of return of portfolio – Risk-free rate of return – β * (Market return – Risk-free rate of return)read more = Actual rate of return of portfolio – Expected Rate of Return on Portfolio
It calculates the standard deviation of the excess return concerning the benchmark rate of return.
Tracking Error FormulaTracking Error FormulaTracking Error Formula is used in order to measure the divergence arising between the price behavior of portfolio and price behavior of the respective benchmark and according to the formula Tracking Error calculation is done by calculating the standard deviation of the difference in return of the portfolio and the benchmark over the period of time.read more = Rp-Rb
Rp = Return of Portfolio, Rb = Return on Benchmark
It calculates the success of the active investment managerInvestment ManagerAn investment manager manages the investments of others using several strategies to generate a higher return for them and grow their assets. They are sometimes also referred to as portfolio managers, asset managers, or wealth managers. They may also be considered financial advisors in some cases, but they are typically less involved in the sales aspect.read more strategy by calculating excess returns and dividing it by tracking error.
Information ratio FormulaInformation Ratio FormulaInformation ratio” (IR) is measured by comparing the excess returns generated by the investment portfolio to the volatility of those excess returns. Mathematically, the information ratio formula is represented as = (Rp – Rb) / Tracking error
read more = (Rp – Rb) / Tracking error
Rp = Return of Portfolio, Rb = Return on Benchmark
It calculates the excess return over and above the risk-free return per unit of negative asset returns.
Sortino Ratio FormulaSortino Ratio FormulaThe Sortino ratio is a statistical tool used to evaluate the return on investment for a given level of bad risk. It is calculated by subtracting the risk-free rate of return from the expected return and dividing the result by the negative portfolio's standard deviation (downside deviation).read more = (Rp – Rf) / σd
Rp = Return of Portfolio, Rf = Risk-Free Rate, σd = standard deviation of negative asset returns

Let’s understand this concept in more detail with the help of a few examples by making use of these popular tools as discussed.
Ryan invested in a portfolio of stocks, as discussed below. Based on the information, calculate the holding period return of the portfolio:
Below is the use holding period return formula.
Sharpe Ratio
Optimal Active Risk of the New Portfolio = (Information Ratio/Sharpe Ratio)*Standard Deviation of Benchmark S&P 500
Accordingly Sharpe Ratio of the New Portfolio = (Information Ratio ^2 + Sharpe Ratio ^2)
Thus the Sharpe ratio is less than 0.35, and Venus can not invest in the said fund.
Raven investments are trying to analyze the portfolio performance of two of its fund managers, Mr. A and Mr. B.
Raven investment is undertaking the portfolio analysis using the information ratio of the two fund managersFund ManagersA fund manager refers to an investment professional responsible for fund investment strategy formulation and implementation. They collect and invest the money from various investors and create a good variety of managed funds catering to the diverse preferences exhibited by the investors. read more with a higher information ratio acting as a measure of superior performance.
The following details enumerated below are used to measure the information ratio for portfolio analysis purposes:
With a higher information ratio, fund manager B has delivered superior performance.
The first step before portfolio analysis is to sync the investor expectation and the market in which such Assets will be invested. Proper sync of the expectations of the investor vis-à-vis the risk and return and the market factors helps a long way in meeting the portfolio objective. With a higher information ratio, fund manager B has delivered superior performance.
This is a scientific process with subjective biases. It is imperative to define what type of assets the portfolio will invest, what tools will be used in analyzing the portfolio, which type of benchmark the portfolio will be compared with, the frequency of such performance measurement, and so on.
After a stated period as defined in the previous step, portfolio performance will be analyzed and evaluated to determine whether the portfolio attained stated objectives and the remedial actions, if any, required. Also, any changes in the investor objectives are incorporated to ensure portfolio analysis is up to date and keeps the investor expectation in check.

Portfolio analysis is an indispensable part of investment management and should be undertaken periodically to identify and improvise any deviation observed against the investment objective. Another important objective it intends to achieve is to identify the real risk undertaken to achieve the desired return and whether the risk is commensurate with the return achieved by the investor. In short, it is a complex task and requires professional expertise and guidance to make it impactful.
This has been a guide to what Portfolio Analysis is and its meaning. Here we discuss its tools along with examples, advantages, and steps. 
Cash investment refers to the Investment in short-term instruments or savings accounts generally for 90 days or less that generally carries a low rate of interest or the return with a comparatively low rate of risk in comparison to another mode of investment.
These investments are highly liquid short-term assets that can be converted into cash easily. Examples of cash investments include a certificate of depositsCertificate Of DepositsA certificate of deposit (CD) is an investment instrument mostly issued by banks, requiring investors to lock in funds for a fixed term to earn high returns. CDs essentially require investors to set aside their savings and leave them untouched for a fixed period.read more, Treasury billsTreasury BillsTreasury Bills (T-Bills) are investment vehicles that allow investors to lend money to the government.read more, saving accounts, etc. These investments are also known as money market investmentsMoney Market InvestmentsThe money market is a financial market wherein short-term assets and open-ended funds are traded between institutions and traders.read more or cash reserves.

There are different types of Cash Investments Options where the investors can invest their money.
Money Market instruments are the very short-term debts and securities sold on money markets, usually having a maturity period of fewer than six months. Money Market instruments are highly liquid investments, i.e., they can be converted into cash easily and pay interest on the investment at the variable interest rate, which is slightly higher than the return earned on the cash savings account. The different examples of the same include commercial paperCommercial PaperCommercial Paper is a money market instrument that is used to obtain short-term funding and is often issued by investment-grade banks and corporations in the form of a promissory note.read more, Treasury bills, etc.
A savings account is a deposit account held at a bank or other financial institution that provides interest on the amount deposited. The savings account is considered an alternative for investment in cash by some people. The interest rate, however, is very minimal on these accounts. The interest on savings accounts depends on the bank or financial institution in which the account is there. Some institutions may also charge fees on these accounts unless a certain average minimum monthly balance is maintained in the account.
The US Government issued the Treasury bill having the par value of $ 1,000, which is for $950. A Treasury bill is issued with the promise to pay full par value to the investor at maturity.
At the time of maturity, the government will pay $ 1,000 to the investor as the value of the Treasury bill. This will give the investor a profit of $ 50 ($ 1,000 – 950). The profit amount is considered as the interest earned.
There are several different advantages of Cash Investments, providing the opportunity for investors to invest their money in liquid assets. Some of the advantages are as follows:
Along with the different advantages, it also has some limitations and drawbacks, some of which are as follows:
These investments are highly liquid short term assetsShort Term AssetsShort term assets (also known as current assets) are the assets that are highly liquid in nature and can be easily sold to realize money from the market. They have a maturity of fewer than 12 months and are highly tradable and marketable in nature.read more that can be converted into cash easily. They have a minimum amount of risk as required by some investors, but at the same time, they offer a very low rate of return, which might not attract some. Generally, these are undertaken by those who require a temporary place to keep their cash while researching other investment products. This is beneficial in case of an emergency of funds as the investor can easily access the money invested by him easily and within a short period. The different cash investments include a certificate of deposits, Treasury bills, saving accounts, etc., which provide stable and low-risk income to investors through regular interest payments.
This has been a guide to Cash Investment. Here we discuss the different types of cash investment options, including the money market and savings account, along with examples, advantages, and disadvantages. Here are the other articles in finance that you may like –

Investment objectives refer to financial goals that motivate investors to invest their funds in a particular security. Investors must be certain about their goals before initiating a long-term investment. This way, they can plan and modify expectations realistically. So, it helps investors make informed decisions, allocate their assets effectively, and evaluate the performance of their investment portfolios over time.

Financial advisors help in decision-making, but ultimately, the investor decides. Besides, financial advisors suggest investment options based on the set objectives. Most investors prioritize one of the two—growth or income. Risk tolerance plays a crucial role in investment decisions.  

Investment objectives are classified into two—primary and secondary. Primary objectives comprise the most important financial goals. For example, securing a secondary source of income, holding an asset long-term, ensuring financial safety, etc., can be the primary objective of investing. 
Secondary objectives rank lower in priority; they add to the primary objective. Tax savings and liquidity are some common examples of secondary objectives.
Typically, investments are assets bought in the present with the expectation that they would yield higher returns in the future. Over a period, investments can generate either profits or losses. The income generated by investments can fulfill financial goals—overcoming income shortages, debt repayment, education, student loans, etc.
Along with purchasing power, individual goals are crucial in selecting the right investment. In a portfolio, the individual’s goals determine the allocation of funds. In addition, investors consider their risk appetite, maturity period, and expected returns.   
Investors and managers spend considerable time on investment planning—these decisions involve massive funds and can be irreversible—the impact on the investor or business is long-term. Investment goals are also classified into short-term and long-term. For example, the final decision may involve a capital expenditure on assets that pay off in the long run or an investment in inventory that converts into sales within a short period.
A company might attempt expansion by taking up new projects; a business might increase the capacity of an existing facility. Capital investment is required for replacing an obsolete asset as well. In business, decision-making is everywhere.
Let us look at investment objective examples to understand financial planning better. 
Robert and Amanda are a couple; they have two children. They want to start investing and hire a financial advisor—Jacob. Right away, Jacob enquires about their primary investment objective.
Their objectives are as follows:
Then, Jacob asks them about their current financial position. He gathers information about disposable income, risk appetite, and purchasing power. The couple was ready to invest $1000 every month.
Based on collected data, the financial advisor suggests the following plan:
Investment objectives are often considered from the perspective of the investors. However, companies that create investment opportunities also have their own investment goals.  
Chelverton UK Dividend Trust has the following objective: to provide shareholders with high income and capital growth. In addition, the company wants to provide a sufficient capital return (secondary objective).
Keeping with the objective, the company’s return per ordinary share increased by  41% (year-on-year), and declared dividends increased by 7% (per share). 
Let us assume that Quinn possesses $12000 in her savings account. She decides to invest, but her objective is low risk and high liquidity.
Her portfolio manager suggests XYZ mutual funds. This mutual fund allocates 75% of its money into debentures & bonds and 25% into stocks. Also, she can withdraw funds at any time.
Most investors have one of two objectives–growth or income. Some investors want both. Let us understand these objectives in detail:
Investments can create an alternative source of income. For experienced investors, it can even become the primary source. Similarly, returns from investments are crucial for retired individuals.
If investors have a low tolerance for risk, they look for regular returns. For such investors, low-risk securities like bonds, treasury bills, certificates of deposit, and preferred stocks are suitable. Here, returns are low, but so is the risk.
Some investors want more than just income and are willing to take higher risks. Capital growth refers to value appreciation. Such investors should purchase high-value assets and hold them long-term.
For example, the main investment objective of mutual funds is growth. Held for a long period, a mutual fund can fulfill investors’ long-term goals. For example, the long-term goal could be to retire early, dream vacation, get a college degree, etc.
Some experienced investors aim for both—growth and income. They have a moderate tolerance for risk. They create a portfolio of investments with varying risk profiles. One investment offers a steady source of income; another possesses high growth potential. This is known as portfolio diversification.
Stocks are another example. High-performance stocks can do both—provide regular income and grow exponentially. In addition, investors gain from the difference between the purchase and selling prices when selling the stock.
A person’s risk tolerance plays a significant role in deciding investment goals. What a person wants to achieve from a certain investment decides how much they want to invest and for how long.
Common investment goals include growth, a capital appreciation that can yield higher gains in the long run, and a steady or fixed source of regular income. Sometimes investors aim to achieve both simultaneously. In addition, some investors have specific spending in mind—purchases, weddings, trips, education, etc. 
Before choosing an investment goal, one must ask themselves what one wants from an investment. Do they have any short-term or long-term goals in life? Then, they must plan how much they want to invest and how much risk they are willing to take. Based on all these factors, the investment objective is finalized. 
This article has been a guide to Investment Objective and its definition. Here we explain the concept in detail using its examples and then compare it with income. 
A Stop-loss order is an advanced version of a computer-activated trade tool that is mostly allowed by brokers so that the trade is executed for a particular stock if only the predetermined price levels are obtained while trading, and such types of orders are designed only for minimizing the investors’ loss burden. This order ensures a high probability of the investor achieving a predetermined entry price or exit price. Investors use this as it helps them to limit the losses and lock in the profits. Once this price crosses the determined entry point or exit point, the stop order converts into a market order.

Let us consider you are comfortable with losing 10% of the value of your Apple’s share and consider that it is now trading at $100. Then you would set a stop-loss order at (100*10%) = 10=100 – 10 = 90
The support method is based on technical indicators and also based on the current trend as the investor identifies a support level and places a stop-loss order at that price. For example, the investor considers the support method of the Apple stock to be $80. Then stop-loss order would also be set at this level.
The moving average method calculates the moving average typically for a longer period of time and then, on the basis of that, places a stop-loss order below that level. The moving average of Apple is at $80; then, in the moving average method, the stop order can be placed at $79.
Let’s assume you own a hundred Apple shares, and you bought the share at $100 per share. The share is expected to reach $120 in the next month, but you do not want to risk it going the other way.
You ask your broker to put a stop order at $90. In this case, if the stock goes up, all the profits will be realized by you. But if the stock goes down and touches $90, the order will automatically be a market order and placed.
It is not necessary that the order will be placed at $90; it can also happen that it will be placed either at $89 or at $91 based on the market conditions.
Your portfolio size is $1,00,000, and the risk you are willing to take is 1%. The total risk for your portfolio, which you are willing to take, is 1%, which equals $1000.The position size is $12,500. This is the total amount of risk you are willing to take.
The stop-loss order is placed at 8%, and the current share price is $50. Considering the stop-loss order at 8%, the share price and the risk you are willing to take are at $46 per share. That is the total amount of loss per share at $4.
Instead of stop-loss, if the protection were on the gain, then at 20%, the total profit would have been $60. Similarly, at 30%, it would have been $65, and at 40%, it would have been $70.
This is how stop-loss or gains are calculated based on the total portfolio amount and the risk you are willing to take.
One important point to discuss before getting on to the advantages of a stop order is that the advantage to one trader could be a disadvantage to others.
This has been a guide to what is Stop-Loss Order and its definition. Here we discuss how to calculate Stop Order to buy/sell stocks, examples, advantages, and disadvantages. 
Brownfield investment is a form of FDI that uses the existing infrastructure by either merging, acquiring, or leasing, instead of developing a completely new one, thereby saving costs and time in production.
Generally, any foreign government or a corporation looking to invest in a foreign asset has two routes: investing through the securities market, in the form of Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI), or through FDI. Within FDI, there are Greenfield and Brownfield modes.
In Greenfield, the investors start from scratch by obtaining land and building the plant on their own, while in Brownfield, they use an existing infrastructure either through purchase or through a merger with a local counterpart.
The Sugar Beach in Toronto, Canada, is an example of Brownfield investment in which the pre-existing parking lot of Jarvis Street Slip was converted to a beach park on Lake Ontario. The beach site was redeveloped and opened to the public in 2010 at $14 million.
The beach was redeveloped as a part of the ‘Toronto Waterfront revitalization initiative’ by the Minister of Infrastructure and Communities so that the underutilized or abandoned industrial sites could be put to better use and generate some revenue.
Apart from leisure and recreational activities, the beach also hosts an annual movie festival hosted by the Toronto Port Authority.
Other such initiatives by the same authority have led to the development of Sherbourne Common, Simcoe Wave Deck, and Corktown Common.

Brownfield Investment is a type of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in which a foreign investor merges, acquires, or leasesLeasesLeasing is an arrangement in which the asset's right is transferred to another person without transferring the ownership. In simple terms, it means giving the asset on hire or rent. The person who gives the asset is “Lessor,” the person who takes the asset on rent is “Lessee.”read more a pre-existing plant and uses the same for the production of a new product resulting in saving the time taken in building a new facility. This may be an advantage for those who may not have to modify the existing facility for their purpose greatly. Otherwise, the redevelopment may become highly costly.
The cleanup cost of contaminated regions might become one of the highest costs to the investors and a great advantage to the local community, so this needs to be considered before making such an investment.
This has been a guide to Brownfield Investment and its definition. Here we discuss Brownfield Investment with the help of an example. We also discuss the difference between Brownfield and Green Investment. You may also have a look at the following articles –
An omnibus account is an investment account that allows multiple individuals to pool their resources and invest as a single entity. The account is managed by a broker or agent who acts as an intermediary between the investors and the stock exchange, executing trades and managing the account on behalf of the clients. The aim of an omnibus account is to consolidate multiple accounts into a single account for ease of management and cost efficiency.

Consolidating multiple individual accounts into a single omnibus account simplifies the process of administration and record-keeping. It can also reduce costs, improve efficiency, and provide access to a wider range of investment opportunities. Various investors use omnibus accounts, including retail investors, institutional investors, and financial intermediaries. 

Omnibus account’s origin can be traced back to the early days of stock trading when individual investors often had difficulty managing and trading securities on their own. Brokers recognized the need for a more efficient and cost-effective way to manage their client’s investments, and the omnibus account was born. The concept of an omnibus account was simple: consolidate the investments of multiple clients into a single account, making it easier to manage and trade securities.
Omnibus accounts work by allowing multiple investors to pool their resources, allowing for the efficient management of their investments by a broker or agent. The broker acts as an intermediary between the investors and the stock exchange, executing trades on behalf of the clients and managing the account as a single entity. 
In addition, the broker is responsible for maintaining records of all transactions, monitoring the performance of the investments, and ensuring that the investors’ assets are protected. Furthermore, it allows for the efficient and cost-effective management of investments, reducing the administrative burden on individual investors and providing access to a wider range of investment opportunities.
Let us look at some examples to understand the concept better:
An investment firm that manages the assets of multiple clients uses an omnibus account. The firm collects all client assets into a single account and invests the funds according to each client’s investment goals and risk tolerance. The firm can efficiently manage the assets of multiple clients using a single account. Still, it also means that the assets of different clients are commingled and not kept separate from one another.
A broker specializing in stocks and bonds uses an omnibus account. The broker collects the funds and securities of multiple clients and holds them in a single account. The broker trades on behalf of the clients, but each client’s assets are not kept separate from the assets of other clients. As a result, if the broker becomes insolvent, it may be difficult for clients to determine which assets belong to them, leading to difficulties in resolving disputes and protecting their assets.
Omnibus accounts have several risks associated with them:
Let’s look into the difference between omnibus and segregated accounts: 
In summary, the main difference between an omnibus and a segregated account is that the latter provides a higher level of protection for the client’s assets by keeping them separate from the assets of other clients. 
It is a mutual fund investment account managed on behalf of multiple investors. In this type of account, the mutual fund company opens an omnibus account with a broker or agent, who acts as an intermediary between the mutual fund company and the individual investors. The broker or agent is responsible for executing trades, managing the account, and maintaining records of all transactions. By pooling resources, investors benefit from the expertise of the broker or agent, who can execute trades more efficiently and cost-effectively.
Yes, an omnibus account is often a type of nominee account. In a nominee account, the broker or agent holds the securities on behalf of the individual investors and acts as the legal owner of the securities. The individual investors are considered the beneficial owners of the securities, but the broker or agent is responsible for the management and administration of the account.
The prime difference between an omnibus and an individual account is how the securities are held and managed. The investor holds the securities in an individual account directly in their name. In an omnibus account, multiple investors pool their resources, and the securities are held in the name of the broker or agent who acts as the legal owner of the securities. 
This article has been a guide to what is an Omnibus Account. We compare it with a segregated account and explain it with examples and its risks. You may also find some useful articles here:
Commingled Funds are professionally managed funds that are usually offered in retirement accounts (401(k)) that combine assets like bonds and equities from multiple accounts and manage the pool as one account, rather than managing each individual accounts separately.

Consider a group of 10 investors who come together with a fund manager to get their accounts managed separately. As managing individual accounts can be operationally challenging and expensive, the manager tells these people that he will treat this money as one single pool, and whichever assets he will buy from the pool will be divided proportionally based on the capital of each account to the combined capital of all the accounts. Also, individual assets will be apportioned to separate accounts on the reporting date, based on overall allocation ratios of assets in the pooled account.
Let’s assume that three investors (A, B, and C) with the capital of $40,000, $60,000, and $100,000 invested in a commingled fund with only these three accounts. The ratio of their capital in the entire pool ($200,000) is 20:30:50. The fund manager takes the pool and invests in three asset classes: stocks, bonds, and treasuries.
A year later, the pool grew to 250,000, and the allocation to three asset classes stood at 40%, 50%, and 10% for stocks, bonds, and treasuries, respectively. At this time, the manager reports the performance and the current state of a portfolio to respective investors. The return on individual accounts is reported to be the same as the return on pooled investments (25% in this case).
This return gives the end of the year-end values of the individual accounts. The manager then reports the assets in these accounts in the same proportion as the pooled account to ascribe different assets in individual accounts. Refer to the below illustration:
This has been a guide to what commingled funds are and their definition. Here we discuss its examples, how it works, its advantages, and disadvantages. 
Ethical investing is a type of investing process that takes into account the investor’s personal values (be it social, moral, religious, political, or environmental values) prior to making the investment decisions.
There are two ways in which ethical investing could be done –
The different types of ethical investing would be those made on different values such as social, moral, religious, environmental values. Let us discuss each of them in detail –
Societal norms dictate what is acceptable to a particular society and what is not. These are usually embedded in different societies and cultures and are widely accepted within that particular society. Taking into account societal values and what could be beneficial to society as a whole, prior to making investments is one form of ethical investing.
For example, – A co-operative society is the best example of investments based on societal values. Members of a particular society form a co-operative and invest in it. When any member of the society requires funds, the co-operative society advances money to that particular member. In this case, the investment is made by the members of the society, taking into account the well-being of the society as a whole – including all its members.
Typically, this form of investing would come under the ‘negative impact’ category. An investor would not invest in any industry/company that does not align with his/her moral values.
For example, – Investors would not be prone to investing in tobacco/liquor manufacturing companies if the investor has strong feelings that such industries are against their morals.
Every religion has its own practices, beliefs, and culture. What is acceptable to one society may not be acceptable to another. Members of a particular religion/culture would be more inclined to invest in industries/companies that are beneficial to their culture/religion or manufacture products that are acceptable to their culture/religion.
For example, – Investors in the Middle East would be more inclined to invest in Hijab/Abaya manufacturing companies as there is a huge demand for it, and it is acceptable to that particular society. Investors belonging to the Judaism faith would be more inclined to invest in companies that adhere to their norms – such as Kosher foods.
The political climate affects the way the investors perceive the state of the economy and naturally influences their investing patterns. Investors tend to invest more and believe the risk to be lower when their political party is in power. Investors are more likely to hold stocks and invest in long term securities during such periods. Alternatively, investors would be less likely to invest when a different political party is in power. They would be more likely to invest in short term stocks and trade more often.
For example – A democrat would be likely to invest more in the stock market when the Democrat Party is in power and would invest in industries that favor the particular party’s value systems.
Given the current state of the planet, green investingGreen InvestingGreen investments are investment activities that are focused on projects that are committed to environment preservation, pollution reduction, fossil fuel reduction, natural resource conservation, generation of alternative energy sources, air and water cleaning and maintenance, waste management, or any other type of environment conscious practices.read more is rapidly gaining importance in recent times. Under this type of investing, investments are made in companies that produce environmentally friendly products, or their manufacturing processes are economy friendly. There have been many instances over the past few decades wherein large-scale industries have caused major air/water pollution. These affect the state of the environment majorly.
Green investing focuses on investing in companies which do not harm the environment through their production processes as well as the final product is environment-friendly. It is not sufficient that the processes are environment-friendly if the final product turns out to be something harmful –such as single-use plastics.
Green investing also focuses on other companies which have an environmental friendly objective such as –
The following are some advantages of ethical investing –
Although ethical investing is theoretically good, it faces the following disadvantages –
Ethical Investing is a welcome practice in recent times to ensure that companies adhere to social, moral, environmental, and cultural norms. Poor or harmful manufacturing processes have hindered the community as well as the planet for so long that it is time to make a stand. Although it comes with its set of disadvantages, when practiced well and accepted by all, ethical investing would be a sound investing mechanism.
This has been a guide to Ethical Investing and its definition. Here we discuss modes of ethical investing along with the types based on investment values and examples. 
Investment strategies are strategies that help investors choose where and how to invest as per their expected return, risk appetite, corpus amount, long-term, short-term holdings, retirement age, choice of industry, etc. Investors can strategies their investment plans as per the objectives and goals they want to achieve.
Let’s discuss different types of investment strategies, one by one.

The passive strategy involves buying and holdingStrategy Involves Buying And HoldingThe term "buy and hold" refers to an investor's investment strategy in which they hold securities for a long period of time, ignoring the ups and downs in market price during a short period of time.read more stocks and not frequently dealing in them to avoid higher transaction costs. They believe they cannot outperform the market due to its volatility; hence passive strategies tend to be less risky. On the other hand, active strategies involve frequent buying and selling. They believe they can outperform the market and can gain more returns than an average investor would.
Investors chose the holding period based on the value they want to create in their portfolio. If investors believe that a company will grow in the coming years and the intrinsic value of a stock will go up, they will invest in such companies to build their corpus value. This is also known as growth investingGrowth InvestingGrowth Investing refers to capital allocation in potentially high earning companies such as small caps and startups, which grow much faster than the overall industry or mature companies. Because the returns on such investments are high, the risk that such investors face is also higher.read more. On the other hand, if investors believe that a company will deliver good value in a year or two, they will go for short term holding. The holding period also depends upon the preference of investors. For example, how soon they want money to buy a house, school education for kids, retirement plans, etc.
Value investing strategy involves investing in the company by looking at its intrinsic value because such companies are undervalued by the stock market. The idea behind investing in such companies is that when the market goes for correctionMarket Goes For CorrectionMarket Correction is usually referred to as a fall of 10% or more from its latest high. It happens due to various reasons such as declining macro-economic factors, intense pessimism across the economy, securities specific factors, over-inflation in the markets, and so on.read more, it will correct the value for such undervalued companies, and the price will then shoot up, leaving investors with high returns when they sell. This strategy is used by the very famous Warren Buffet.
This type of strategy focuses on generating cash income from stocks rather than investing in stocks that only increase the value of your portfolio. There are two types of cash income which an investor can earn – (1) DividendDividendDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more and (2) Fixed interest income from bonds. Investors who are looking for steady income from investments opt for such a strategy.
In this type of investment strategy, the investor looks out for companies that consistently paid a dividend every year. Companies that have a track record of paying dividends consistently are stable and less volatile compared to other companies and aim to increase their dividend payout every year. The investors reinvest such dividends and benefit from compoundingCompoundingCompounding is a method of investing in which the income generated by an investment is reinvested, and the new principal amount is increased by the amount of income reinvested. Depending on the time period of deposit, interest is added to the principal amount.read more over the long term.
This type of strategy allows investors to buy stocks of companies at the time of the down market. This strategy focuses on buying at low and selling at high. The downtime in the stock marketStock MarketStock Market works on the basic principle of matching supply and demand through an auction process where investors are willing to pay a certain amount for an asset, and they are willing to sell off something they have at a specific price.read more is usually at the time of recession, wartime, calamity, etc. However, investors shouldn’t just buy stocks of any company during downtime. They should look out for companies that have the capacity to build up value and have a branding that prevents access to their competition.
This type of investment strategy allows investors to invest a small portion of stocks in a market index. These can be S&P 500, mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more, exchange-traded funds.
Here are a few investing tips for beginners, which should be kept in mind before investing.
Some of the advantages of investment strategies are as follows:
Some of the limitations of investment strategies are as follows:
It is very important to have an investment strategy. It will help you rule out poor portfolios and will increase the chances of success. Ask yourself a few basic questions like how much I want to invest? How much return do I need? How much is my risk toleranceRisk ToleranceRisk tolerance is the investors' potential and willingness to bear the uncertainties associated with their investment portfolios. It is influenced by multiple individual constraints like the investor's age, income, investment objective, responsibilities and financial condition.read more? What will be my investment horizon? Why did I need to invest? Etc. The clearer you are with your objectives, the better decision you will make regarding your investment. Always lookout for good opportunities and never invest at one go. Building a portfolio is like building a house brick by brick, money by money.
This has been a guide to what are investment strategies and its definition. Here we discuss different types of investment strategies along with advantages and disadvantages. 
A High-Risk Investment is an investment where the degree of risk is high, and there is a high chance that an investor could lose substantial/all amount invested. In High-Risk Investments, the chances of underperformance are higher than usual. Such investments shall be made by investors who have a high-risk appetite.
Let us now understand in detail about high-risk investments with the help of a few examples:

A hedge fund is an investment fundHedge Fund Is An Investment FundA hedge fund is an aggressively invested portfolio made through pooling of various investors and institutional investor’s fund. It supports various assets providing high returns in exchange for higher risk through multiple risk management and hedging techniques.read more that coalesces funds from investors such as institutional investors and invests in a varied type of assets and is managed by a professional investment management firm.
Real estate based securities are investments in projects like a REIT, a Mortgage investment company, etc. The investors may receive payments on par with rent and/or mortgage payments. He/she may receive capital gains if the asset is sold for a gain or might suffer a capital lossCapital LossCapital Loss is a loss when the value of the consideration received from the result of the transfer of capital assets is less than the aggregate value of the cost of acquisition & cost of the improvement. In simpler words, it can be stated as the loss derived from the transfer of capital assets.read more if the asset is sold for a loss.
This is a way private companiesPrivate CompaniesA privately held company refers to the separate legal entity registered with SEC having a limited number of outstanding share capital and shareowners. read more raise money from investors. Returns from such investments are uncertain and hence very risky. Investors should invest only if they can afford to lose all of their investment.
Investing in a new business or a start-up with an expectation to earn interest and participation in the future profits of the business. It may have the rule to hold on the investment for an indefinite period, and the returns are always uncertain.
They are also known as market-linked investments and are often created by investment banksInvestment BanksInvestment banking is a specialized banking stream that facilitates the business entities, government and other organizations in generating capital through debts and equity, reorganization, mergers and acquisition, etc.read more. They meet the needs of the investors with a customized product mix. It depends on risk tolerance.Risk Tolerance.Risk tolerance is the investors' potential and willingness to bear the uncertainties associated with their investment portfolios. It is influenced by multiple individual constraints like the investor's age, income, investment objective, responsibilities and financial condition.read more. The benefits vary from one product to another. They are usually not liquid, and the fee may be quite exorbitant.
Shares are sold to investors like institutional investorsInstitutional InvestorsInstitutional investors are entities that pool money from a variety of investors and individuals to create a large sum that is then handed to investment managers who invest it in a variety of assets, shares, and securities. Banks, NBFCs, mutual funds, pension funds, and hedge funds are all examples.read more and retail investors and also underwritten by banks that arrange such shares to be listed on stock exchanges. This enlarges and diversifies the equity base of the company. But there is uncertainty as to whether the management will perform all the necessary duties to develop the company and earn sufficient returns.
Other examples include cryptocurrenciesCryptocurrenciesCryptocurrency refers to a technology that acts as a medium for facilitating the conduct of different financial transactions which are safe and secure. It is one of the tradable digital forms of money, allowing the person to send or receive the money from the other party without any help of the third party service.read more, foreign exchange, ETFsETFsAn exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a security that contains many types of securities such as bonds, stocks, commodities, and so on, and that trades on the exchange like a stock, with the price fluctuating many times throughout the day when the exchange-traded fund is bought and sold on the exchange.read more, Venture CapitalVenture CapitalVenture capital (VC) refers to a type of long-term finance extended to startups with high-growth potential to help them succeed exponentially. read more, Angel investingAngel InvestingAngel investors refer to wealthy investors who supply capital to budding businesses in return for a portion of their equity. read more, Spread bettingSpread BettingSpread betting is a derivative technique that is more or less a sort of betting on future market movements. In this case, the participants do not actually own the assets that they are using for betting purposes; in other words, it may be learned as a type of betting that involves placing a bet on price shifts in a stock or a commodity.read more, etc.
This has been a guide to what is High-Risk Investments and its definition. Here we discuss various examples of the top 6 high-risk investments along with their advantages and disadvantages. 
A diversified portfolio of investments refers to a low-risk investment plan that works as the best defense against a financial crisis. It allows an investor to earn the highest possible returns by making investments in combination with a combination of assets like stocks and commodities, fixed income, etc.
There are different ways through which investments can be diversified, some of which are as follows:

Different types of classes of assets have different performances during the same economic event. So, different classes of assets such as stocks, fixed-income investments, commodities, real estate, cash, etc. can be included in a portfolio for diversified investment resulting in lowering the overall risk.
Different individual companies perform differently in the market according to the different factors. So there should be a mix of such companies to reduce the portfolio’s overall risk.
The portfolio should have balance across multiple industries in the economy as some events are industry-specific. If that event occurs, the only value of investments in those industry instruments will only decrease. So, one should invest in different industries so that a portfolio’s overall risk is low.
Most investors have biases towards instruments issued in their home country. But it is always beneficial to diversify the portfolio internationally because an event that is negative for one country might have no effect on other countries or might have a positive effect on other countries. So if the investment is diversified geographically, then a loss in investment in one country can be offset by international investmentsInternational InvestmentsInternational investments are made outside of domestic markets and offer portfolio diversification as well as risk management opportunities. As a result, an investor can diversify his portfolio and extend his return horizon by making international investments.read more.
All of a sudden, the volatility in the share marketThe Share MarketThe share market is a public exchange where one can buy and sell company shares based on the demand and supply of shares. read more increases, and then, in that case, there are chances that the people who have invested in stocks incur a huge loss. In such cases, if a person is holding investments in some other class of assets as well like fixed interest investments or direct property, which do not have an impact on the same event during the same period, then the return generated out of these investments will help in reducing the overall risk of the portfolio and smoothing the overall returns.
Below are some advantages of Diversified Investments.
The following are the disadvantages of Diversified Investments.
A diversified investment is a mixture of different assets like stocks, fixed-income securities, and commodities to achieve the highest return for the minimum level of risk. The diversification concept works because all the different types of assetsDifferent Types Of AssetsAssets are the resources owned by individuals, companies, or governments expected to generate future cash flows over a long period. There are broadly three types of asset distribution: 1. Based on convertibility (current and non-current assets), 2. Physical existence (tangible and intangible assets), 3. Usage (operating and non-operating assets)read more have different reactions concerning the same event happening in the economy. All the assets in the diversified investments do not correlate with each other, and generally, when the value of some investment falls, then at the same the value of another type of asset may rise.
Due to this, the overall risk of total investments becomes low as in case of any event; there are some classes of assets that will give benefits and offsets the loss incurred in other assets because it is rare that all the classes of assets would have a negative effect by any one event.
Diversified investments help investors achieve a smoother and more consistent return on the investments over the long and medium-term period. When the person’s holdings are diversified widely in divergent types of assets such as stocks, bondsBondsBonds refer to the debt instruments issued by governments or corporations to acquire investors’ funds for a certain period.read more, commodities, real estate, and cash, it helps reduce the portfolio’s overall risk as each asset class exhibits different types of strengths and strengths and weaknesses concerning risk and profitability.
So, maintaining holdings by a person in the majority of these asset classes helps him create a stable portfolio, which then helps increase value over the period.
This has been a guide to what are diversified investments and their definition? Here we discuss the top 4 types of diversified investments, examples, advantages, and disadvantages. 
Pension Fund refers to any fund, plan, or scheme set up by an employer (or union) that generates regular income for employees after their retirement. This pooled contribution from the pension plan is usually invested conservatively in government securities, blue-chip stocks, and investment-grade bonds to ensure that it generates sufficient returns.

Historically, pension funds limited their investment to government securities, blue-chip stocksBlue-chip StocksBlue chip stocks are issued by companies possessing large market capitalization. Blue chip companies are market leaders. They provide good returns on stocks, offer dividends, and are considered safe investments.read more, and investment-grade bondsInvestment-grade BondsInvestment grade is the credit rating of fixed-income bonds, bills, and notes as assigned by the credit rating agencies like Standard and Poor’s (S&P), Fitch, and Moody’s to express the creditworthiness of and risk associated with these investments.read more. However, changing market scenarios and the need to generate higher returns has forced pension plans to amend the rules to allow investments in almost all asset classesAsset ClassesAssets are classified into various classes based on their type, purpose, or the basis of return or markets. Fixed assets, equity (equity investments, equity-linked savings schemes), real estate, commodities (gold, silver, bronze), cash and cash equivalents, derivatives (equity, bonds, debt), and alternative investments such as hedge funds and bitcoins are examples.read more. Now, let us look at some of the asset classes they usually invest in.
We can broadly classify Pension Funds based on the benefits offered by the employer – defined benefit fund and defined contribution planDefined Contribution PlanA defined contribution pension plan is when the employer and the employee frequently make a significant amount of contributions to enable employees to save a decent amount of money for the retirement period and leave with the utmost dignity in their retirement phase.read more.
In these types of funds, the fund pays a fixed income to the pensioner irrespective of the fund’s performance. In these funds, the fund manager has to ensure that the fund generates enough return to cover the retirement benefits of the pensioner. In case of any shortfall, the employer must pay the difference. On the other hand, if the fund generates a higher return, then the employers enjoy the benefit. Effectively, the employer bears all the risks in the defined benefit fund.
In these types of funds, the employer’s contribution to the fund is fixed, while the pensioner’s benefits depend on the fund’s performance. So, the employer is not liable to pay out the difference in case the value of the fund drops. Effectively, all the risk transfersRisk TransfersRisk transfer is a risk-management mechanism that involves the transfer of future risks from one person to another. One of the most common examples of risk management is the purchase of insurance, which transfers an individual's or a company's risk to a third party (insurance company).read more to the pensioner.
Below is the list of the top 10 largest public pension funds from across the globe, sorted according to the asset under management (AuM).
Source: Globe Newswire
In the US, private pension plans are regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974. It defines the minimum standards to be followed while managing a pension plan to safeguard the interest of the participants. It also guarantees employee retirement benefits, under Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), in case the employer goes out of business. Under PBGC, a 65-year-old retiree is eligible for a maximum guaranteed amount of $69,750 annually. ERISA doesn’t cover public pension funds, which fall under the purview of state governments or state constitutions.
This article has been a guide to What is the Pension Fund & its definition. Here we discuss how it works along with features, investments, regulations, benefits, and disadvantages. 
Excess return refers to the return from an investment above the benchmark. It indicates whether the investment is outperforming the market or not. Hence it helps in evaluating the investment performance. Alpha is an example of this metric.
In simple words, it is the difference between total return and expected return. Obtaining factors like beta value and the risk-free rate are important for its calculation. The value can be positive, zero, or negative. Its calculation and forecasting are becoming important in quantitative tradingQuantitative TradingQuantitative trading is a computer software-based trading strategy that uses mathematical models and calculations to assess patterns and trends in the movement and behaviour of stocks to pick undervalued stocks at the right time and make a profitable trade execution.read more and stock price prediction based on machine learning.

Excess return is an important investment term. It is the additional return on an investment by which it rises above the benchmark rate. Generally, the benchmark is a rate based on U.S. Government securities. Also, the additional return indicates that the investment contained an additional risk of loss because the return potential increases with risk. Hence pointing to the risk-return trade-off.
A high alpha or excess return value is always good. If this value is high for a specific mutual fund, it attracts investors. Fund managers, through careful analysis, select the assets and incorporate diversification to optimize the portfolio and generate higher alpha. A high alpha of the fund indicates its outperformance against the benchmark, and a negative value indicates the underperformance. An outperformance is always attributed to the fund manager’s skills and asset selection strategies. The value is always calculated under the capital asset pricing modelCapital Asset Pricing ModelThe Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) defines the expected return from a portfolio of various securities with varying degrees of risk. It also considers the volatility of a particular security in relation to the market.read more (CAPM).
An example of an investment option mostly exhibiting high alpha is MBS (Mortgage-backed securities) in the United States. Different factors drive the alpha in the case of MBS like new home sales, industrial productions, refinancing proxy, etc. Furthermore, in a highly volatile market, various factors contribute to alpha. For example, there are scenarios of mispricing securities due to over-reacting or under-reacting to any piece of information and high returns due to social media influence like in the case of meme stocks, etc. 
The formula based on the CAPM is the following:
Expected Return = Risk-free rate + (Beta*Market risk premium)
                             = Rf + β(Rm – Rf)
Excess return = Total return – Expected return
Applying the expected return formula to the above:
                       = Tr – Rf + β(Rm – Rf)
Here,
The Sharpe ratio is another essential performance metric, often known as the Sharpe index. It may assess the performance of investment while accounting for risk. The greater the ratio, the better the investment. The Sharpe ratio is calculated by dividing the “Portfolio return – Risk-free rate” over a particular period by the standard deviation of the portfolio’s excess return.
Sharpe ratio = (Portfolio return-Risk-free rate) / Portfolio Standard Deviation 
Let’s consider an example to understand how to calculate excess return.
Kate is interested in risk-free Treasury BillsTreasury BillsTreasury Bills (T-Bills) are investment vehicles that allow investors to lend money to the government.read more but wants to explore other investment opportunities. She has surface-level knowledge of the stock market. Kate knows that the stock market can be risky; with her rudimentary understanding, she is scared of a big market crash and losing her hard-earned money. But at the same time, she is also tempted to get a much higher return than T-Bills when the market is strong and moves up.
Kate is curious about how much extra return she can get by investing in a mutual fundMutual FundA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more instead of a T-bill. Kate notices that a Mutual Fund, “ABC,” had a return of 10% last year. The risk-free rate on T-Bills was only 4%, which means that the additional return enjoyed by the investors of the ABC mutual fund are:
Excess returns = Total return – Expected return
=10% – 4%
= 6%.
Kate missed a 6% return by letting her money stay invested in T-Bills.
Both evaluate performance. Excess return value depicts an index’s or investment’s total return after deducting the benchmark value. When an investment outperforms the market, this occurs. Its value will be zero If no outperformance or underperformance is exhibited. On the other hand, the total return is the actual rate of return on an investment over a specified period considered. Total return includes interest, capital gains, dividendsDividendsDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more, other distributions, etc., earned during the assessment period.
It refers to the return exceeding the benchmark return rate. It is calculated by deducting the expected return from the total return. Using it helps in the investment’s performance evaluation process, and it acts as an input to investment decision-making.
When an investment beats the market, the excess return value is the return of an index or investment after removing the benchmark value. In contrast, the total return is the actual rate of return on investment.
It also refers to and is close to the concept of alpha, which defines the investment’s ability to beat the market. It showcases how much the asset has outperformed the benchmark index. Alpha can be negative or positive.
This has been a Guide to What is Excess Return. We explain how to calculate it using the formula, example, and vs. total return.

An asset allocation fund is a diversified portfolio that invests across different asset classes. These allocation funds have a set percentage of investment in other assets or variables among asset classes that are modified owing to market conditions. It gives investors a diversified portfolio that diversifies risks and gives the best possible returns from different asset classes.

Depending on the investment mandate of the investor, these funds invest in different asset classes like stocks, bonds, commodities, cash, equity funds, and real estate. Fund managers manage these investments and make necessary changes based on the movements in the market and the performance of the asset class.

Asset allocation funds are investments that let the investor a mix of equity and securities that provide fixed income that helps them achieve growth in terms of capital appreciation, diversification, income, and allocation based on the retirement dates of the investor.
Most funds of this nature have a fixed allocation rate for different assets that generate income or equity. However, they can deviate from the fixed rate depending on the market movement and asset class performance. Still, they are rebalanced to monthly or quarterly fixed allocation rates, depending on the fund’s mandate.
Asset allocation gives the investor a portfolio that matches their risk appetite, investment period, and retirement goals. Since every investor’s nature of investing and investment goals differ, it is a reliable medium through which each investor can invest according to their needs.
Moreover, investors may park their investments in different funds for different objectives. For example, if an individual is saving for an international vacation, they might prefer investing in a mix of short-term bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), and cash.
However, suppose the investor is looking at a long-term horizon. In that case, they might invest in stocks, bonds, and real estate to be unperturbed by the short-term volatility, with the percentage of allocation depending on their tolerance for risk.
Another factor that investors might consider is their current age. With more time behind them, young investors can invest in comparatively risky assets. As the primary goal for most young investors is to grow their investments and multiply their net worth, they can choose to take more risks than someone past their youth.
However, as they age, the portfolio must move more towards more conservative allocations, as their goal is probably to protect the corpus they have developed over the years. Hence, the goal is to harvest regular returns rather than multiply the investments rapidly.
Financial professionals cite that investment allocation is one of the most critical steps in a portfolio’s growth.
Depending on the investor’s risk appetite and investment period, they can choose various strategies for asset allocation. A few of the most followed types of allocations are as discussed below:
This strategy follows a combination of asset classes based on their expected returns for each asset. Then, depending on the risk appetite and investment period, the investor can choose to rebalance their portfolio according to the movement in the market and the performance of a particular asset class.
For example, if stocks have given profits of 12% historically and bonds have performed at 6%, assuming a 50-50 allocation in stocks and bonds, the investor can expect a 6% return annually.
This strategy promotes the classic buy-and-hold approach and diversification to alleviate risks and boost returns.
A dynamic asset allocation fund is a strategy where the fund manager constantly adjusts the mix of assets depending on the market’s upward and downward movements. Practicing this approach will enable the manager to sell the assets on a decline and buy those on the rise.
In this strategy, the portfolio manager’s judgment precedes the asset classes’ target mix.
Under this strategy, the portfolio is continuously rebalanced, owing to the rise and decline of an asset or asset class. For example, if, say asset declines in value, then the manager would purchase it more to average the buying price, and if that asset gives a positive run, the manager will sell it.
Even though there are no definite rules regarding buying and selling to rebalance the portfolio, fund managers usually follow a practice where an asset class is rebalanced when it gives 5% returns or more.
It is the polar opposite of dynamic allocation, where the declining assets are sold instead of purchasing them even further in quantity to average the cost per unit.
According to this strategy, a base portfolio value is created, below which the portfolio must not be allowed to drop. Then, if the portfolio gives positive and satisfactory returns, the fund manager actively manages the portfolio based on their judgment, forecasts, and analytical research.
However, suppose the portfolio drops to or below the base value. In that case, the fund manager invests in risk-free assets like Treasury bills to ensure the portfolio returns to its base value.
If the portfolio ever reaches this point, it is advised to relocate the assets or even completely change the investment strategy.
Under the integrated approach, the risk tolerance and expectation from the economy account for the allocation mix of the fund. While other strategies do not necessarily take the investor’s risk tolerance into detailed account, the integrated approach does.
This approach integrates strategies that allow it to take market expectations and changes. As a result, integrated allocation is considered a broader strategy for the distribution of assets.
However, two strategies that contradict each other’s functionalities, like strategic asset allocation and constant-weighting allocation, for example, cannot be adopted as they will be detrimental to the portfolio’s growth.
Let us understand the ebbs and flows of this concept through the examples below:
Stuart recently landed a job at a reputed company through his placements at college. His family and friends had advised him to develop the habit of investing as early as possible. By nature, he is not someone who has tolerance for high risk, unlike his friends. Hence, he began looking around for investment options.
He discovered a multi asset allocation fund that invested in various asset classes, providing investors with a highly diversified portfolio.
The fund has given Stuart an average return of 7% for the last four years.
The effect of factors external to the stock market or the debt market, like environmental, social, and governance, playing a vital role in the movement of the prices of asset classes is well established.
Global asset allocation fund companies have needed help finding tools efficient enough to hedge the risks of external factors.
To ensure the investments from their clients are safer, the second-largest US pension fund has reduced its allocation in the fixed income section of the fund to 12%.
Asset allocation and balanced funds are investment products that are closely discussed and looked at for investing opportunities. However, despite their similarities, there are stark differences in their formats, a few of which are as discussed below:
Asset Allocation Fund:
Balanced Fund:
A fund with a dynamic allocation strategy exposes the investor to an extensively diversified portfolio, which includes investment products like mutual funds, hedge funds, and principal-protected notes. These funds generally provide principal protection, which means they do not necessarily take risks to ensure better returns; they work towards protecting the investor’s funds rather than growing them.
Since the short-term volatility in the market will deem insignificant in the long run, the general practice among investors for retirement planning is 40% in short-term quality bonds and the remaining 60% in diversified equity. As age increases, it is advised to rebalance the portfolio and have less equity exposure.
Hybrid allocation funds invest in equity and debt in no specific ratio. Instead, according to the market’s movement, they are dynamically managed and rebalanced in terms of the proportion invested in equity and other debt instruments.
Most allocation funds have a fixed amount invested towards a fixed-income instrument and the remaining in equity or other asset classes within the same fund. It allows investors to experience gains regularly while the rest of their investment continues to grow.
This has been a guide to what is Asset Allocation Fund. Here, we explain its types, examples, and comparison with the balanced fund. 
Tontine refers to a system wherein a group of people contribute to a common fund to receive regular income for the rest of their lives. However, if a contributor dies, his/her share gets distributed amongst the remaining members instead of the deceased’s family.
This way, whoever lived the longest made the highest profit by overtaking the shares of the deceased. In the 1800s, tontines were a vastly popular means for retirement planning, insurance policies, construction and war funding. However, death benefits and certain corrupt functionalities led to their downfall.

You must have heard of annuity schemes in insurance. Usually, an insured contributes a lump sum or fixed payments over time towards the scheme. It is then further invested for increased earnings. In return, the insured gets insurance coverage, usually for life. Tontines worked with a similar principle, so let us understand their definition in detail.
Certain people came together and created a pool of funds in which each member contributed. The common fund was put to further investment to fetch higher profits. In return, every member received a dividendDividendDividends refer to the portion of business earnings paid to the shareholders as gratitude for investing in the company’s equity.read more for the rest of their lives. However, the main difference in the definition of tontine and other traditional investment came through the idea of making profits out of the death of the members.
As explained, the contributed capitalContributed CapitalContributed capital is the amount that shareholders have given to the company for buying their stake and is recorded in the books of accounts as the common stock and additional paid-in capital under the equity section of the company’s balance sheet.read more of the dying members did not get passed on to their family members. Instead, it was divided amongst the living members of the group. This share is also called mortality credit for the same reason. This way, the last living member got all the returns on the entire investment by overtaking the shares of the deceased members.
Let us understand the functionality of tontines with an example.
It is pretty evident that if the share of the dying member is divided amongst the living members equally, it will be unfair since the members from different age groups will have different longevity.
To make it more suitable, actuarial tables started gaining prominence. They showed the probability of death. It helped investors figure out the longevity of the group members. The gathered information also paved the way for modern-day mortality tables. The mortality table is a logarithmic table showing different annuity yields by age.
In the early days, many tontine schemes involved assigning a nomineeNomineeA nominee is an individual or entity that under financial terms gains access to assets and securities, including bank deposits, real property, and stocks, on behalf of the original owner. While serving as a trustee or guardian to safeguard assets in the absence of the actual owner, the designated party gets powers to conduct financial transactions.
read more or getting the fund in someone else’s name, such as one’s child. Such schemes were segregated by age. Higher the age, higher the rate of interest they would attract.
Tontine, as a word, got its derivation from Lorenzo de Tonti, who had proposed this arrangement to the French in the 1650s to raise revenue in the war-affected France. The idea gained momentum in the UK and the US in some years.
The examples of tontine majorly come from the UK, where massive projects were funded by it. Some examples include the Tontine Hotel in Ironbridge, Glasgow Coffee House, Peebles Hotel, Assembly Rooms in Bristol, etc. Another example is Freemasons Hall in London, built in 1775.
An example from the US is the Tontine Coffee House, NYC. The renowned Manhattan project was proposed in 1790. The members of the group were supposed to receive rent for the rest of their lives. The entire investment was divided into 203 shares, and each share was sold for $200.
As a method for estate planning and insurance, tontines became so popular that at one time, studies suggested that they were holding around 7.5 per cent of the national wealth in the US. In the early 1900s, it was estimated that there were 9 million such policies.
The idea of profits being directly proportional to the number of members passing away made the process problematic. It contributed as one of the major reasons for the unpopularity of tontines. Members of some groups were believed to have hoped for the demise of other members to increase their share, resulting in many fiction writers taking such stories to the silver screen.
Moreover, the accusations of rampant corruption in the insurance industry resulted in an investigation by the New York State Legislature. It was known as the Armstrong Commission. Consequently, in 1906, New York state legislation banned tontine-related products. They are banned in most of the United States. Although, only Louisiana and South Carolina are believed to have specifically outlined clauses in their insurance laws to prohibit their use.
Some prevalent investment schemes have certain tontines like traits such as Wisconsin Pension Plan and CREF variable annuity as per a study. The study further lists some countries that have come up with a particular investment scheme sharing similar traits. Examples include Sweden, France, Australia, South Africa, and Canada. Canada expressed a proposal in 2019 to have a retirement scheme that has similar features as a tontine investment scheme.
Moreover, economic thinkers have reiterated through various studies how certain tontine hybrid investment plans could prove more profitable. This is because they could work better in terms of annual yield if allowed within the legal boundaries.
This has been a guide to Tontine and its meaning. Here we discuss how tontine investment works, is it legal, along with examples.

Sector rotation is an active investment approach wherein funds are transferred from one stock market sector to another. It enables the investors to benefit from an unpredictable financial environment and receive higher gains. It entails selling the procured shares in one industry to buy the shares in another one. 
Various sectors or industries thrive in different parts of the economic cycle, which the investors can anticipate. Thus, the sector rotation strategy assists them in comprehending the performance of business segments & acknowledging market movements. It contrasts with the buy-&-hold approach that entails the possession of stocks over a prolonged duration.

Sector rotation exercises the simple theory that an economy moves in cycles. This cycle can be roughly divided into five stages: the growth stage, the peak of growth, decline, recession, and recovery. 
The stock market is classified into distinct sectors that combine public companiesPublic CompaniesPublicly Traded Companies, also called Publicly Listed Companies, are the Companies which list their shares on the public stock exchange allowing the trading of shares to the common public. It means that anybody can sell or buy these companies’ shares from the open market.read more operating in similar fields with comparable functioning. Moreover, the sector rotation strategy denotes a “rotational” shift of finances across numerous stock market sectors.  
It requires proactive capital management for planned investment by abandoning the depleting sectors and cashing in on the growing ones. The movement of the capital amount into more susceptible sectors brings higher yields. As a result, this aids the investors in leveraging the changes that transpired in every stage of an economic cycle.  
Investors may also utilize it with portfolio rebalancingPortfolio RebalancingPortfolio Rebalancing is reallotment of the assets according to their performance in the past period and desired results. This is done by divesting in the low performing assets and investing more in the best performing ones.read more to sustain the preferred level of investment risk. Besides the economic cycle, an unexpected financial depression also helps discern the sectors for a profitable investment. So, they must carefully observe their portfolio and ensure thorough market awareness to cash in on the strategy.
An average business cycleBusiness CycleThe business cycle refers to the alternating phases of economic growth and decline.read more has five stages:
Company witnesses a typical prompt improvement from the downturn with positive economic recovery, seeking a quickened growth rate. In addition, convenient fiscal policies with no credit crunch result in a swift profit marginProfit MarginProfit Margin is a metric that the management, financial analysts, & investors use to measure the profitability of a business relative to its sales. It is determined as the ratio of Generated Profit Amount to the Generated Revenue Amount. read more extension. As a result, the firm registers immense sales growth with low inventories. The sectors that are most likely to thrive in this stage include those related to technology and consumer discretionaryConsumer DiscretionaryConsumer discretionary refers to goods and services mostly acquired using discretionary income as they are optional in people’s lives such as designer clothes or luxury cars.read more.
 Business experiences positive but more growth than in the initial phase. Similarly, commercial affairs speed up with increased profitability and robust market presence. As a result, both sales and business inventories undergo further expansion. Sectors related to material and financials and energy can greatly profit from this stage.
It implicates the early stage of reduced market performance with high inflation rates and an alarming economic downturn. It includes rigid monetary regulations, diminished profit marginsProfit MarginsProfit Margin is a metric that the management, financial analysts, & investors use to measure the profitability of a business relative to its sales. It is determined as the ratio of Generated Profit Amount to the Generated Revenue Amount. read more, and limited credit availability. As a result, inventories gain momentum, but sales growth takes a nosedive. The sectors that can make a fortune during this stage are healthcare, consumer staples, and utilities.
This occurs when the company’s commercial worth declines to a disturbing level leading to unemployment. In addition, it features lower corporate profitsCorporate ProfitsCorporate profit, or ‘profit after tax, is the net income received from the business after deducting direct expenses, indirect expenses and all the applicable taxes from the total revenue generated by the company during the year.read more, decreased sales, credit deficiency, and low inventories. Consumer cyclical, financial services, and industries have traditionally gained from this stage.
The recovery stage closely follows economic recessionEconomic RecessionEconomic recession is defined as the phase in which economic activities of a country become stagnant, leading to a disturbance in the business cycle and affecting the overall demand-supply balance. read more as the business activities begin to get back up and grow with a sustainable income rise, employment generation, and financial recoil. Real estateReal EstateAt its most basic principle, Real Estate can be defined as properties that comprise land and its tangible attachments. The land includes the actual surface of the earth and any permanent natural objects such as water, dirt, or rock and any minerals or particulars under the surface. read more, capital goodsCapital GoodsCapital goods are man-made assets used in the manufacturing process of a product. They are used to produce the final goods that people consume daily. They are one of the four factors of production- the other three being natural resources, labor, and entrepreneurship.read more, and industries are the sectors that are most likely to profit from this stage.
Corresponding sectors or industries start to show movement a few months after each stage. Therefore, the success of this strategy hugely depends on the accuracy of the investors’ anticipations or predictions of these changes. But, the sector rotation strategy also offers several risks.
Some of them are:
It involves more frequent and timely investment decisions than a conventional buy-&-hold strategy. Therefore, sector rotation is beneficial only for well-trained and experienced investors. 
The most usual sector rotation strategy is the transmission of money from cyclical (offensive) to non-cyclical (defensive) stocks and vice-versa. 
Cyclical stocksCyclical StocksA cyclical stock refers to that share whose price fluctuates with the change in overall macroeconomic conditions. Such a stock is sensitive to the various economic phases like recession, boom, expansion, contraction, trough, peak and recovery.read more depict firms that sell non-essential commodities and boost in a booming market, like branded clothing, automobile, and restaurants. At the same time, non-cyclical stocks represent companies that sell essential items and stay unchanged during market variations, like food, clothing, and detergents. 
Therefore, the investors must move their funds from cyclical to non-cyclical stocks during an economic slowdown and reverse the movement during an upturn. 
The investors may also purchase mutual fundsMutual FundsA mutual fund is a professionally managed investment product in which a pool of money from a group of investors is invested across assets such as equities, bonds, etcread more or individual shares and exchange-traded fundsExchange-traded FundsAn exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a security that contains many types of securities such as bonds, stocks, commodities, and so on, and that trades on the exchange like a stock, with the price fluctuating many times throughout the day when the exchange-traded fund is bought and sold on the exchange.read more (ETFs) for diverse exposure to specific sectors. Gradually, they can upgrade their equities according to the anticipated growth or decline of the industry. 
A CNBC news report mentions its expert, Jim Cramer, preferred reopening stocks to bet on in the sector rotation strategy. He also suggested that investors can exploit the upswing in monetary recovery stocks. First, however, it is essential to maintain exposure to growth stocks. 
A few of his hand-picked stocks for sector rotation include Marriott, Disney, Southwest Airlines, Royal Caribbean, & Wynn Resorts. Also, he put his bets on Mastercard, American Express, Visa, Caterpillar, Simon Property Group, Nucor, & Estee Lauder. Except for Royal Caribbean & Estee Lauder, all the stocks registered significant growth. 
Sector rotation is a prolonged investing tactic usually reviewed per month. It helps the short-term market deviations to smoothen up over time easily.
 The effectiveness of sector rotation depends upon the economic instability across the given period. If less unstable, it may benefit the investors while resulting in significant financial loss in high volatility. Moreover, this strategy is pretty tough to generate continuous long-term dividends.
The risks associated with a sector rotation strategy are, 1. Inaccurate prediction of market alterations 2. Intensified transaction rates 3. Tax consequences, & 4. Magnified market instability
Sector rotation strategy lets the investors maximize the variations in an industry’s economic cycle. Timely investment in the right sector aids them reap higher returns.
This has been a guide to Sector Rotation and its definition. We explain how stock market sector rotation strategies work with examples and economic cycle impact.

Wealth accumulation is acquiring money, properties, or other assets that increase a person’s net worth over time. Individuals can achieve it through investing and actively earning returns through them. Typically, a person does it to secure a financially stable future for them the coming years.
It is common for individuals to want a financially secure life, particularly after retirement. However, wealth accumulation differs for different individuals. It usually depends on the individual’s goals and aspirations. The setting of long-term and short-term goals can help planning for the future. Having a long-term wealth accumulation plan will have a compounding effect.

Wealth accumulation meaning may differ according to a person’s individual goal. It largely depends on the goals and aspirations of the individual. For some, it may be having enough wealth (income, money, and assets) that give them time, freedom, and returns. For some, it may mean having large amounts of money that can feed generations continually. The main difference between being wealthy and rich is that a rich person is rich until the money is exhausted. Wealthy people will have enough cash to satisfy their needs, and their investments continuously give returns to fulfill their goals. However, there is no particular wealth accumulation product that can make a person wealthy.
Individuals should have a clear idea of their short-term and long-term goals. Having a wealth accumulation plan is therefore important. The plan will conceptualize the goals, the ways, and means to achieve them, along with their timelines. Individuals must employ various wealth accumulation strategies to form a perfect plan. These plans, like any other financial plan, involve investing which involves a factor of risk. Therefore care should be taken in formulating such plans. Earning, investing, and building wealth typically occur during the 30s, 40s, and 50s, with a plan to retire comfortably by 60. Some individuals would want to retire much earlier than most people. They should adjust their wealth accumulation strategies accordingly.
Here are a few common wealth accumulation strategies that one can employ to acquire wealth:

One of the most logical things to do is to check the expenses. It is similar to trying to save water in a pot. Small drops eventually gathers into a large volume, but if the pots have holes, there will be water leakage, and the acquisition process becomes pointless. Tracking expenses can make a big difference if the income equals expenditures or less than expenses. Living on credit cards can sometimes be damaging and therefore one must use it with caution. If the income increases in the future, keeping the costs at the same level can also lead to accumulation.
Investments are one of the best and most effective ways to build wealth. Investment need not be in big amounts. If done at an earlier stage, it can help a person save a significant amount through the factor of compounding. For example, a person “A” who starts investing at the age of 20 with an amount of $1000 at a rate of 5% per annum will have more money than someone who starts at 30 with the same numbers. At the age of 45, A will have $3,386.35. B will receive $2078.
Financial goals should be SMART (specifically measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound). First, an assessment based on the current income and the means to achieve them within a specific timeline has to be set. Then, every dollar saved should be directed to those goals. It is not any particular wealth accumulation product that helps someone become wealthy but these strategies.
Whether individuals must pay off a loan, a mortgage, or debt, priority shall be given to obligations that have high-interest rates. This will help concentrate on more important goals later in life.
It is probably underrated. Before making investments, it is important to save for a rainy day. This fund will act as a shock absorber and will not hurt savings. One should save a good amount of 3–6 months’ income for this fund.
A basic understanding of expenses, interest, and investments can assist an individual in making informed decisions. The effect of diversification and the importance of reinvesting the returns should be understood by anyone who invests. In a constantly evolving market, updating to make smart choices is essential. 
Sam is a teacher with a monthly salary of $10000. He has different aspirations, such as becoming a house- owner by the age of 30, start a college fund for kids by the age of 35 etc. Sam started investing at the age of 23, with an initial investment of $5000. He contributes $100 every month, for a rate of 7% per year. He wants to own a house by 30, and the house rate is $15,000. Sam has seven years to achieve that goal. If we look at the compound interest here, the amount adds up to $18,413.73 for an investment of $5000 over seven years, which is more than $3000 needed for the house. Now, he can pay whatever is left for his children’s education. Through planning and strategizing, one can accumulate wealth in this way.
Accumulating wealth involves cutting expenses, saving, investing, creating multiple income streams, etc. All these steps are taken with one focus—to live a financially stable, independent life. Working all through one’s life will not lead to financial freedom. The money invested has to create more money to achieve it. This will help in early retirement. The earlier an individual retires, the less financial stress they have to go through. It also creates assets that one can pass down to future generations. It also helps individuals achieve their goals and aspirations according to their timeline. This gives them a sense of satisfaction and helps them live a contented life.
Accumulating wealth involves the creation of assets and money that will help an individual achieve their financial goals. The goals may differ from person to person. However, a common reason for wealth accumulation is retirement.
It starts with budgeting and tracking expenses. It then proceeds with the savings to the investment part of an individual’s income. The long-term and short-term investment strategies and the compounding interest returns acquired by these investments over time are the key to wealth acquisition.
It will differ from person to person; however, the plan depends upon financial goals. For example, investing in short-term debt instruments is recommended to create an emergency fund. Similarly, equities can be a preferable choice for long-term investment. Therefore, one must frame the plan to accommodate different goals.
There may be many limiting factors to the accumulation of wealth. For example, it could be due to less income, poor savings, or high spending ability. Sometimes, a lack of knowledge of finance can also be a factor.
This has been a Guide to Wealth Accumulation and its Meaning. We explain its strategies, examples, and why it is important along with a detailed explanation.